This is no simple reform. It really is a revolution. Sex and race, because they are easy, visible differences, have been the primary ways of organizing human beings into superior and inferior groups, and into the cheap labour on which this system still depends. We are talking about a society in which there will be no roles other than those chosen, or those earned. We are really talking about humanism.
Any woman who chooses to behave like a full human being should be warned that the armies of the status quo will treat her as something of a dirty joke. That's their natural and first weapon. She will ''need'' her sisterhood.
I have met brave women who are exploring the outer edge of human possibility, with no history to guide them, and the courage to make themselves vulnerable that I find moving beyond words.
However sugarcoated and ambiguous, every form of authoritarianism must start with a belief in some group's greater right to power, whether that right is justified by sex, race, class, religion or all four. However far it may expand, the progression inevitably rests on unequal power and airtight roles within the family.
If the shoe doesn't fit, must we change the foot?
As the little boy said when asked if he wanted to be a lawyer like his mother, "Oh no, that's women's work." Logic has nothing to do with oppression.
God may be in the details, but the goddess is in the questions. Once we begin to ask them, there's no turning back.
Law and justice are not always the same. When they aren't, destroying the law may be the first step toward changing it.
Women may be the one group that grows more radical with age.
A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle.
… Gloria Steinem's definition of a feminist—"Anyone who recognizes the equality and full humanity of women and men"...
She is so deluded that she genuinely believes she speaks for all women. She's a victim of her own success. I liked the early Steinem. There was once a survey conducted for Time about who would make a good candidate for the first female president, and I wrote in Gloria Steinem. But now? Gloria Steinem is dissing men and dissing fashion and she's out having her hair streaked at Kenneth's. She became a socialite with a coterie. A lot of middle-aged white ladies still love her, but the media have been negligent regarding her.
*http://www.gloriasteinem.com/ Gloria Steinem's Official Website
*http://www.feminist.com/gloriasteinem/ Official Page at Feminist.com
