Your lordship, only worldly light in this age of ours, you can never be pleased with another man's work for there is no man who resembles you, nor one to equal you … It grieves me greatly that I cannot recapture my past, so as to longer be at your service. As it is, I can only offer you my future, which is short, for I am too old … That is all I have to say. Read my heart for "the quill cannot express good will."
Beauty is the purgation of superfluities.
I was never the kind of painter or sculptor who kept a shop.
If people knew how hard I had to work to gain my mastery, it would not seem so wonderful at all.
If you knew how much work went into it, you would not call it genius.
As when, O lady mine, With chiselled touch The stone unhewn and cold Becomes a living mould, The more the marble wastes, The more the statue grows.
''A quel pietoso fonte, onde siam tutti,  S'assembra ogni beltà che qua si vede,  Più c'altra cosa alle persone accorte;
The greatest danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it, but that it is too low and we reach it.
What do you despise? By this you are truly known.
''Ancora Imparo''.
Do we not say that the judicious discovering of a most lovely Statua in a piece of Marble, hath sublimated the wit of Buonarruotti far above the vulgar wits of other men? And yet this work is onely the imitation of a meer aptitude and disposition of exteriour and superficial mem­bers of an immoveable man; but what is it in comparison of a man made by nature, composed of as many exteriour and inte­riour members, of so many muscles, tendons, nerves, bones, which serve to so many and sundry motions? but what shall we say of the senses, and of the powers of the soul, and lastly, of the understanding? May we not say, and that with reason, that the structure of a Statue falls far short of the formation of a living man, yea more of a contemptible worm?
Enough, enough, enough! Say no more! Lump the whole thing! say the Creator made Italy from designs by Michael Angelo!
