If something is expensive to develop, and somebody's not going to get paid, it won't get developed. So you decide: Do you want software to be written, or not?
It's not manufacturers trying to rip anybody off or anything like that. There's nobody getting rich writing software that I know of.
Instead of buying airplanes and playing around like some of our competitors, we've rolled almost everything back into the company.
To create a new standard, it takes something that's not just a little bit different; it takes something that's really new and really captures people's imagination — and the Macintosh, of all the machines I've ever seen, is the only one that meets that standard.
The next generation of interesting software will be done on the Macintosh, not the IBM PC.
I believe OS/2 is destined to be the most important operating system, and possibly program, of all time.
There's only one trick in software, and that is using a piece of software that's already been written.
{{anchor|RAM1989}}I have to say that in 1981, making those decisions, I felt like I was providing enough freedom for 10 years. That is, a move from 64&nbsp;K to 640&nbsp;K felt like something that would last a great deal of time. Well, it didn't - it took about only 6 years before people started to see that as a real problem.
If people had understood how patents would be granted when most of today's ideas were invented, and had taken out patents, the industry would be at a complete standstill today.… The solution to this is patent exchanges with large companies and patenting as much as we can.
{{anchor|RAM1993}} I laid out memory so the bottom 640&nbsp;K was general purpose RAM and the upper 384 I reserved for video and ROM, and things like that. That is why they talk about the 640&nbsp;K limit. It is actually a limit, not of the software, in any way, shape, or form, it is the limit of the microprocessor. That thing generates addresses, 20-bits addresses, that only can address a megabyte of memory. And, therefore, all the applications are tied to that limit. It was ten times what we had before. But to my surprise, we ran out of that address base for applications within&mdash;oh five or six years people were complaining.
Gary Kildall was one of the original pioneers of the PC revolution. He was a very creative computer scientist who did excellent work. Although we were competitors, I always had tremendous respect for his contributions to the PC industry. His untimely death was very unfortunate and he and his work will be missed.
There are no significant bugs in our released software that any significant number of users want fixed. … I'm saying we don't do a new version to fix bugs. We don't. Not enough people would buy it. You can take a hundred people using Microsoft Word. Call them up and say "Would you buy a new version because of bugs?" You won't get a single person to say they'd buy a new version because of bugs. We'd never be able to sell a release on that basis.
In terms of doing things I take a fairly scientific approach to why things happen and how they happen. I don't know if there's a god or not, but I think religious principles are quite valid.
What we're saying to people is that every idea about ease-of-use, we can develop in software, for the PC, without asking them to buy new hardware, without asking them to throw away their old applications.
Just in terms of allocation of time resources, religion is not very efficient. There's a lot more I could be doing on a Sunday morning.
It's possible, you can never know, that the universe exists only for me. If so, it's sure going well for me, I must admit.
We've done some good work, but all of these products become obsolete so fast... It will be some finite number of years, and I don't know the number — before our doom comes.
<span id="proprietary-ie-capabilities">One thing we have got to change in our strategy - allowing Office documents to be rendered very well by other peoples browsers is one of the most destructive things we could do to the company. We have to stop putting any effort into this and make sure that Office documents very well depends on PROPRIETARY IE capabilities.</span>
About 3 million computers get sold every year in China, but people don't pay for the software. Someday they will, though. As long as they are going to steal it, we want them to steal ours. They'll get sort of addicted, and then we'll somehow figure out how to collect sometime in the next decade.
Sometimes we do get taken by surprise. For example, when the Internet came along, we had it as a fifth or sixth priority. It wasn't like somebody told me about it and I said, "I don't know how to spell that." I said, "Yeah, I've got that on my list, so I'm okay." But there came a point when we realized it was happening faster and was a much deeper phenomenon than had been recognized in our strategy.
Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.
Microsoft has had clear competitors in the past. It’s a good thing we have museums to document that.
We don't have the user centricity. Until we understand context, which is way beyond presence — presence is the most trivial notion, just am I on this device or not; it doesn't say am I meeting with something, am I focused on writing something.
Like almost everyone who uses e-mail, I receive a ton of spam every day. Much of it offers to help me get out of debt or get rich quick. It would be funny if it weren't so irritating.
Spam will be a thing of the past in two years' time.
Does the e-mail say it's about 'enlargement' — that might be spam.
Personal computing today is a rich ecosystem encompassing massive PC-based data centers, notebook and Tablet PCs, handheld devices, and smart cell phones. It has expanded from the desktop and the data center to wherever people need it — at their desks, in a meeting, on the road or even in the air.
If you show people the problems and you show people the solutions they will be moved to act.
Understand that this is the last physical format there will ever be.
Any operating system without a browser is going to be fucking out of business. Should we improve our product, or go out of business?
I wish I wasn't … There's nothing good that comes out of that. You get more visibility as a result of it.
Stolen's a strong word. It's copyrighted content that the owner wasn't paid for. So yes.
I'm a big believer that as much as possible, and there's obviously political limitations, freedom of migration is a good thing.
If you just want to say, "Steve Jobs invented the world, and then the rest of us came along," that's fine. If you’re interested, Vista development chief Jim Allchin will be glad to educate you feature by feature what the truth is. … Let’s be realistic, who came up with "File/Edit/View/Help"? Do you want to go back to the original Mac and think about where those interface concepts came from?
"You know, I'm a big believer in touch and digital reading, but I still think that some mixture of voice, the pen and a real keyboard - in other words a netbook - will be the mainstream on that." quoted in (February 2010)http://blogs.bnet.com/corporate-strategy/?p=101
"It's easier for our software to compete with Linux when there's piracy than when there's not." -Bill Gates, Fortune Magazine, July 17 2007
Robots will play an important role in providing physical assistance and even companionship for the elderly.
It's not like I sit there and feel the same way I did with iPhone where I say, "Oh my God, Microsoft didn't aim high enough." It's a nice reader, but there's nothing on the iPad I look at and say, "Oh, I wish Microsoft had done it."
Just giving people devices has a really horrible track record. You really have to change the curriculum and the teacher. And it's never going to work on a device where you don't have a keyboard-type input. Students aren't there just to read things. They're actually supposed to be able to write and communicate. And so it's going to be more in the PC realm—it's going to be a low-cost PC that lets them be highly interactive.
The best way to prepare to be a programmer is to write programs, and to study great programs that other people have written. In my case, I went to the garbage cans at the Computer Science Center and fished out listings of their operating system.
You've got to be willing to read other people's code, and then write your own, then have other people review your code. You've got to want to be in this incredible feedback loop where you get the world-class people to tell you what you're doing wrong...
The finest pieces of software are those where one individual has a complete sense of exactly how the program works. To have that, you have to really love the program and concentrate on keeping it simple, to an incredible degree.
We're no longer in the days where everything is super well crafted. But at the heart of the programs that make it to the top, you'll find that the key internal code was done by a few people who really know what they were doing.
Unfortunately, many programs are so big that there is no one individual who really knows all the pieces, and so the amount of code sharing you get isn't as great. Also, the opportunity to go back and really rewrite something isn't quite as great, because there's always a new set of features that you're adding on to the same program.
The worst programs are the ones where the programmers doing the original work don't lay a solid foundation, and then they're not involved in the program in the future.
Programs today get very fat; the enhancements tend to slow the programs down because people put in special checks. When they want to add some feature, they'll just stick in these checks without thinking how they might slow the thing down.
Before Paul and I started the company, we had been involved in some large-scale software projects that were real disasters. They just kept pouring people in, and nobody knew how they were going to stabilize the project. We swore to ourselves that we would do better.
Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.
The obvious mathematical breakthrough would be development of an easy way to factor large prime numbers.
One of the wonderful things about the information highway is that virtual equity is far easier to achieve than real-world equity...We are all created equal in the virtual world and we can use this equality to help address some of the sociological problems that society has yet to solve in the physical world,"
This leads to the paradox, that because the disease is only in the poor countries, there is not much investment. For example, there is more money put into baldness drugs, than are put into malaria. Now, baldness, it is a terrible thing audience laughter and rich men are afflicted, so that is why that priority is set.
First we've got population. Now, the world today has 6.8 billion people. That's headed up to about nine billion. Now, if we do a really great job on new vaccines, health care, reproductive health services, we could lower that (forecast) by, perhaps, 10 or 15 percent, but there we see an increase of about 1.3 (per year).
Let's burn the 99%.
He Steve Jobs showed me the boat he was working on … and talked about how he's looking forward to being on it, even though we both knew there was a good chance that wouldn't happen.
The moral systems of religion, I think, are superimportant. We've raised our kids in a religious way; they've gone to the Catholic church that Melinda goes to and I participate in. I've been very lucky, and therefore I owe it to try and reduce the inequity in the world. And that's kind of a religious belief. I mean, it's at least a moral belief.
I agree with people like Richard Dawkins that mankind felt the need for creation myths. Before we really began to understand disease and the weather and things like that, we sought false explanations for them. Now science has filled in some of the realm – not all – that religion used to fill. But the mystery and the beauty of the world is overwhelmingly amazing, and there's no scientific explanation of how it came about. To say that it was generated by random numbers, that does seem, you know, sort of an uncharitable view. I think it makes sense to believe in God, but exactly what decision in your life you make differently because of it, I don't know.
I see little commercial potential for the internet for the next 10 years.
Intellectual property has the shelf life of a banana.
Life is not fair. Get used to it... Be nice to nerds. Chances are you'll end up working for one.
{{anchor|640K}} 640&nbsp;K ought to be enough for anybody.
A future startup with no patents of its own will be forced to pay whatever price the giants choose to impose. That price might be high. Established companies have an interest in excluding future competitors.
The idea that Bill Gates has appeared like a knight in shining armour to lead all customers out of a mire of technological chaos neatly ignores the fact that it was he who, by peddling second-rate technology, led them into it in the first place.
Gates is the ultimate programming machine. He believes everything can be defined, examined, reduced to essentials, and rearranged into a logical sequence that will achieve a particular goal.
Bill Gates is a very rich man today … and do you want to know why? The answer is one word: versions.
It's a business I don't know anything about, but I admire Bill Gates enormously. I know him individually, and I think he's incredible in business.
There never was a chip, it is said, that Bill Gates couldn't slow down with a new batch of features.
Well, it seems to me that he did have an education to get there. It happened to be mine, not his.
He is divisive. He is manipulative. He is a user. He has taken much from me and the industry.
Probably the most dangerous and powerful industrialist of our age.
Bill Gates is a monocle and a Persian cat away from being the villain in a James Bond movie.
There is nothing nice about Steve Jobs and nothing evil about Bill Gates. Gates is a good man.
Gates apparently has made more money than anyone else his age, ever, in any business.
http://www.microsoft.com/billgates/speeches.asp Speeches of Bill Gates at Microsoft.com
http://mpt.net.nz/archive/2005/12/30/gates quotes about voice recognition
