I can hardly understand the importance given to the word ''research'' in connection with modern painting. In my opinion to search means nothing in painting. To ''find'' is the thing. Nobody is interested in following a man who, with his eyes fixed on the ground, spends his life looking for the purse that fortune should put in his path. The one who finds something no matter what it might be, even if his intention were not to search for it, at least arouses our curiosity, if not our admiration.
We all know that Art is not truth. Art is a lie that makes us realize truth, at least the truth that is given us to understand. The artist must know the manner whereby to convince others of the truthfulness of his lies. If he only shows in his work that he has searched, and re-searched, for the way to put over lies, he would never accomplish anything.
Cubism is no different from any other school of painting. The same principles and the same elements are common to all. The fact that for a long time cubism has not been understood and that even today there are people who cannot see anything in it, means nothing. I do not read English, and an English book is a blank to me. This does not mean that the English language does not exist, and why should I blame anyone but myself if I cannot understand what I know nothing about?
Variation does not mean evolution. If an artist varies his mode of expression this only means that he has changed his manner of thinking, and in changing, it might be for the better or it might be for the worse.
Many think that cubism is an art of transition, an experiment which is to bring ulterior results. Those who think that way have not understood it. Cubism is not either a seed or a foetus, but an art dealing primarily with forms, and when a form is realized it is there to live its own life. A mineral substance, having geometric formation, is not made so for transitory purposes, it is to remain what it is and will always have its own form.
The smell of opium is the least stupid smell in the world.
I do not seek, I find.
It isn’t up to the painter to define the symbols. Otherwise it would be better if he wrote them out in so many words! The public who look at the picture must interpret the symbols as they understand them.
..this bull is a bull and this horse is a horse... If you give a meaning to certain things in my paintings it may be very true, but it is not my idea to give this meaning. What ideas and conclusions you have got I obtained too, but instinctively, unconsciously. I make the painting for the painting. I paint the objects for what they are.
It is my misfortune - and probably my delight - to use things as my passions tell me. What a miserable fate for a painter who adores blondes to have to stop himself putting them into a picture because they don't go with the basket of fruit!
In the old days pictures went forward toward completion by stages. Every day brought something new. A picture used to be a sum of additions. In my case a picture is a sum of destructions. I do a picture — then I destroy it. In the end though, nothing is lost: the red I took away from one place turns up somewhere else
Abstract art is only painting. What about drama? There is no abstract art. You always start with something. Afterward you can remove all traces of reality.
I deal with painting as I deal with things, I paint a window just as I look out of a window. If an open window looks wrong in a picture, I draw the curtain and shut it, just as I would in my own room. In painting, as in life, you must act directly.
Academic training in beauty is a sham. We have been deceived... The beauties of the Parthenon, Venuses, Nymphs, Narcissuses are so many lies. Art is not the application of a canon of beauty but what the instinct and the brain can conceive beyond any canon.
Art is not made to decorate rooms. It is an offensive weapon in the defense against the enemy.
Les gloires, les trompettes, les palmes... et les bas-reliefs,... tout cela fait un monument
When I don't have red, I use blue.
Accidents, try to change them - it's impossible. The accidental reveals man.
There are painters who transform the sun into a yellow spot but there are others who with the help of their art and their intelligence transform a yellow spot into a sun.
*It takes a very long time to become young.
The artist is a receptacle for emotions derived from anywhere: from the sky, from the earth, from a piece of paper, from a passing figure, from a spider’s web. This is a spider ’s web. This is why one must not make a distinction between things. For them there are no aristocratic quarterings. One must take things where one finds them.
Art is never chaste. It ought to be forbidden to ignorant innocents, never allowed into contact with those not sufficiently prepared. Yes, art is dangerous. Where it is chaste, it is not art.
Speaking of computers But they are useless. They can only give you answers.
Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
It's like God's. God is really only another artist. He invented the giraffe, the elephant, and the cat. He has no real style. He just goes on trying other things.
When there's anything to steal, I steal
It means nothing to me. I have no opinion about it, and I don't care.
For me, there are two kinds of women — goddesses and doormats.
It was thinking about Casagemas’s death that started me painting in blue.
To contradict. To show one eye full face and one in profile. Nature does many things the way I do, but she hides them! My painting is a series of non-sequiturs. ...
Success is dangerous. One begins to copy oneself and to copy oneself is more dangerous than to copy others.
Drink to me. Drink to my health. You know I can't drink any more.
For a long time I limited myself to one colour — as a form of discipline.
I begin with an idea and then it becomes something else. After all, what is a painter? He is a collector who gets what he likes in others by painting them himself. This is how I begin and then it becomes something else.
People who try to explain pictures are usually barking up the wrong tree.
Their forms had no more influence on me than they did on Matisse. Or Derain. But for them, the masks were sculptures like all others. When Matisse showed me his first African head, he spoke to me of Egyptian art.
Good artists copy, great artists steal.
La inspiración existe, pero tiene que encontrarte trabajando.
People want to find a "meaning" in everything and everyone. That's the disease of our age, an age that is anything but practical but believes itself to be more practical than any other age.
It took me four years to paint like Raphael, but a lifetime to paint like a child.
Painting isn't an aesthetic operation; it's a form of magic designed as mediator between this strange hostile world and us.
I am always doing that which I can not do, in order that I may learn how to do it.
A friend built a modern house and he suggested that Picasso too should have one built. But, said Picasso, of course not, I want an old house. Imagine, he said, if Michelangelo would have been pleased if someone had given him a fine piece of Renaissance furniture, not at all.
Picasso' great fresco is a monument to destruction, a cry of outrage and horror amplifed by the spirit of genius.
*''Picasso es pintor, yo también; Picasso es español, yo también; Picasso es comunista, yo tampoco.''
{{Official website|http://www.picasso.fr/us/picasso_page_index.php}}
http://www.getty.edu/vow/ULANFullDisplay?find=pablo+picasso&role=&nation=&prev_page=1&subjectid=500009666 Union List of Artist Names, Getty Vocabularies. ULAN Full Record Display for Pablo Picasso. Getty Vocabulary Program, Getty Research Institute. Los Angeles, California
{{worldcat id|id=lccn-n78-86005}}
http://libmma.contentdm.oclc.org/cdm/compoundobject/collection/p15324coll10/id/94303/rec/1 Prints & People: A Social History of Printed Pictures, an exhibition catalogue from The Metropolitan Museum of Art (fully available online as PDF), which contains a significant amount of material on the prints of Picasso (see index)
http://www.guggenheimcollection.org/site/artist_bio_126.html Guggenheim Museum Biography
http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/pica/hd_pica.htm Metropolitan Museum of Art (New York City)
http://www.musee-picasso.fr/ Musée National Picasso (Paris, France)
http://www.antibes-juanlespins.com/fr/culture/musees/picasso/ Musée Picasso (Antibes, France)
http://www.museopicassomalaga.org/ Museo Picasso Málaga (Málaga, Spain)
http://www.museupicasso.bcn.es/ Museu Picasso (Barcelona, Spain)
http://www.nga.gov/cgi-bin/psearch?Request=A&Person=24750 National Gallery of Art
http://collectionsonline.lacma.org/mwebcgi/mweb.exe?request=onview2;artist=109245 Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) (Los Angeles, California)
