and you kissed me  shy as though I'd  never been your lover
Rust rust rust  in the engines of love and time
Although only one man may be receiving the favors of a woman, all men in her presence are warmed. That's the great Generosity of women and the great generosity of of the Creator who worked it out is that there are no unilateral agreements on sexuality.
What is a saint? A saint is someone who has achieved a remote human possibility. It is impossible to say what that possibility is. I think it has something to do with the energy of love. Contact with this energy results in the exercise of a kind of balance in the chaos of existence. A saint does not dissolve the chaos; if he did the world would have changed long ago. I do not think that a saint dissolves the chaos even for himself, for there is something arrogant and warlike in the notion of a man setting the universe in order. It is a kind of balance that is his glory. He rides the drifts like an escaped ski. His course is the caress of the hill. His track is a drawing of the snow in a moment of its particular arrangement with wind and rock. Something in him so loves the world that he gives himself to the laws of gravity and chance. Far from flying with the angels, he traces with the fidelity of a seismograph needle the state of the solid bloody landscape. His house is dangerous and finite, but he is at home in the world. He can love the shape of human beings, the fine and twisted shapes of the heart. It is good to have among us such men, such balancing monsters of love.
God is alive. Magic is afoot. God is alive. Magic is afoot. God is afoot. Magic is alive. Alive is afoot. Magic never died. God never sickened. Many poor men lied. Many sick men lied. Magic never weakened. Magic never hid. Magic always ruled. God is afoot. God was ruler though his funeral lengthened. Though his mourners thickened Magic never fled...
It was only when you walked away I saw you had the perfect ass. Forgive me for not falling in love with your face or your conversation.
Only in Canada could somebody with a voice like mine win 'Vocalist of the Year'.
I am so often accused of gloominess and melancholy. And I think I'm probably the most cheerful man around. I don't consider myself a pessimist at all. I think of a pessimist as someone who is waiting for it to rain. And I feel completely soaked to the skin. … I think those descriptions of me are quite inappropriate to the gravity of the predicament that faces us all. I've always been free from hope. It's never been one of my great solaces. I feel that more and more we're invited to make ourselves strong and cheerful. .... I think that it was Ben Jonson who said, I have studied all the theologies and all the philosophies, but cheerfulness keeps breaking through.
And if one is to express the great inevitable defeat that awaits us all, it must be done within the strict confines of dignity and beauty.
Now, I don't want to give you the impression that I'm a great musicologist, but I'm a lot better than what I was described as for a long, long time; you know, people said I only knew three chords when I knew five.
I feel that, you know, the enormous luck I've had in being able to make a living, and to never have had to have written one word that I didn't want to write, to be able to have satisfied that dictum I set for myself, which was not to work for pay, but to be paid for my work — just to be able to satisfy those standards that I set for myself has been an enormous privilege.
People used to say my music was too difficult or too obscure, and I never set out to be difficult or obscure. I just set out to write what I felt as honestly as I could, and I am delighted when other people feel a part of themselves in the music.
This is the very contrary of dropping out. Most people can't wait to get home to their house or apartment and shut that door and turn on the TV. To me, that's dropping out.
"You have loved enough, now let me be the lover." You could say that God is speaking to you or the cosmos, or your lover. It just means, like, Forget it. Lean back and be loved by all that is already loving you. ''It is your effort at love that is preventing you from experiencing it.'' It is like if you ever taught kids how to swim. The most difficult thing is Goddam to understand that they will float, if they relax, if they hold their breath and relax, they will actually float. For most kids it is difficult to swim. They feel they are going to sink like a stone to the bottom of the lake.
Suzanne takes you down to her place near the river.  You can hear the boats go by,  You can spend the night beside her,  And you know that she's half crazy  But that's why you want to be there,  And she feeds you tea and oranges  That come all the way from China.  And just when you mean to tell her  That you have no love to give her  Then she gets you on her wavelength  And she lets the river answer  That you've always been her lover.  And you want to travel with her,  And you want to travel blind,  And you know that she will trust you,  For you've touched her perfect body with your mind.
And she shows you where to look  Among the garbage and the flowers. There are heroes in the seaweed,  There are children in the morning,  They are leaning out for love,  And they will lean that way forever,  While Suzanne holds the mirror.
And Jesus was a sailor  When he walked upon the water  And he spent a long time watching  From his lonely wooden tower  And when he knew for certain  Only drowning men could see him  He said "All men will be sailors then  Until the sea shall free them"  But he himself was broken  Long before the sky would open  Forsaken, almost human  He sank beneath your wisdom like a stone
It's true that all the men you knew were dealers  who said they were through with dealing  Every time you gave them shelter.  I know that kind of man  It's hard to hold the hand of anyone  who is reaching for the sky just to surrender.
Like any dealer he was watching for the card  that is so high and wild  he'll never need to deal another.  He was just some Joseph looking for a manger.
I told you when I came I was a stranger.
It's you my love, you who are the stranger.
Please understand, I never had a secret chart  to get me to the heart of this  or any other matter.  When he talks like this  you don't know what he's after.
Oh the sisters of mercy, they are not departed or gone.  They were waiting for me when I thought that I just can't go on.  And they brought me their comfort and later they brought me this song.  Oh I hope you run into them, you who've been travelling so long.
Yes, you who must leave everything that you cannot control,  It begins with your family, and soon it comes round to your soul.  Well I've been where you're hanging, I think I can see how you're pinned:  When you're not feeling holy your loneliness says that you've sinned.
When they lay down beside me I made my confession to them.  They touched both my eyes and I touched the dew on their hem.  If your life is a leaf that the seasons tear off and condemn,  They will bind you with love that is graceful and green as a stem.
When I left they were sleeping, I hope you run into them soon.  Don't turn on the lights, you can read their address by the moon.  And you won't make me jealous if I hear that they sweetened your night:  We weren't lovers like that and besides it would still be all right.
I loved you in the morning, our kisses deep and warm,  Your hair upon the pillow like a sleepy golden storm,  Yes many loved before us, I know that we are not new,  In city and in forest they smiled like me and you,  But let's not talk of love or chains and things we can't untie,  your eyes are soft with sorrow,  Hey, that's no way to say goodbye.
Like a bird on the wire,  like a drunk in a midnight choir  I have tried in my way to be free. 
You who build these altars now  to sacrifice these children,  you must not do it anymore.  A scheme is not a vision  and you never have been tempted  by a demon or a god.
When it all comes down to dust I will kill you if I must, I will help you if I can.  When it all comes down to dust I will help you if I must, I will kill you if I can.
I finally broke into the prison  I found my place in the chain  Even damnation is poisoned with rainbows
Now I've heard there was a secret chord  That David played, and it pleased the Lord  But you don't really care for music, do you?  It goes like this the fourth, the fifth  The minor fall, the major lift  The baffled king composing Hallelujah
You say I took the name in vain  I don't even know the name  But if I did, well really, what's it to you?  There's a blaze of light in every word  It doesn't matter which you heard  The holy or the broken Hallelujah
I remember when I moved in you  And the holy dove she was moving too,  And every single breath that we drew was  ''Hallelujah''.
I did my best, it wasn't much  I couldn't feel, so I tried to touch  I've told the truth, I didn't come to fool you.  And even though it all went wrong  I'll stand before the Lord of Song  With nothing on my tongue but Hallelujah.
The captain called me to his bed and fumbled for my hand  "Take these silver bars," he said, "I'm giving you command."  Command of what? There's no on here. There's only you and me.  The rest are dead or in retreat or with the enemy.  "Complain, complain, that's all you've done ever since we lost,  If it's not the crucifixion then it's the holocaust."
I come from a country where we do not have the same struggles as you have. I respect your struggles. And it may surprise you, but I respect both sides of this struggle. It seems to be that in Europe there needs to be a left foot and a right foot to move forward. I wish that both feet move forward and the body moves towards its proper destiny. This is an intense country; the people are heroic, the spirit is independent. It is a difficult country to govern, it needs a strong government and a strong union. … I would like to say to you, to the leaders of the left, and the leaders of the right, I sing... I sing for everyone. My song has no flag, my song has no party. And I say the prayer, that we said in our synagogue, I say it for the leader of your union and the leader of your party. May the Lord put a spirit, a wisdom and understanding into the hearts of your leaders and into the hearts of all their counsellors.
I have no program, I have no five-year plan. … It doesn’t mean that you shouldn't have one! I just move from hotel to hotel, and from bar to bar, and by the grace of the One above occasionally a song comes, and I remember sitting at this particularly obnoxious Polynesian restaurant where they served a kind of coconut drink that was particularly lethal and sinister which contained no alcohol but a certain chemical that demoralized you entirely. And I remember writing on one of their very badly designed napkins, "I remember you well at the Chelsea Hotel..." so I dedicate this song to one of the great singers, Janis Joplin.
I know there is an eye that watches all of us. There is a judgment that weighs everything we do. And before this great force, which is greater than any government I stand in awe and I kneel in respect and it is to this great judgment that I dedicate this next song, "Hallelujah".
I don't know which side is anybody on any more. I don't really care. There is a moment when we have to transcend the side we're on and understand that we are creatures of a higher order. That doesn't mean that I don't wish you courage in your struggle. There is on both sides of the struggle men of good will. That is important to remember. On both sides of the struggle, some struggling for freedom, some struggling for safety and solemn testimony of that unbroken faith which binds generations one to another I sing this song, "If It Be Your Will"
They sentenced me to twenty years of boredom  For trying to change the system from within  I'm coming now, I'm coming to reward them  First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin.
I'm guided by a signal in the heavens  I'm guided by this birthmark on my skin  I'm guided by the beauty of our weapons  First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin.
Ah, you loved me as a loser, but now you're worried that I just might win  You know the way to stop me, but you don't have the discipline  How many nights I prayed for this, to let my work begin  First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin.''
Everybody knows that the dice are loaded  Everybody rolls with their fingers crossed  Everybody knows that the war is over  Everybody knows the good guys lost  Everybody knows the fight was fixed  The poor stay poor, the rich get rich  That's how it goes  Everybody knows.
Everybody knows that you love me baby  Everybody knows that you really do  Everybody knows that you've been faithful  Ah give or take a night or two  Everybody knows you've been discreet  But there were so many people you just had to meet  without your clothes  And everybody knows
If you want a lover  I'll do anything you ask me to.  And if you want another kind of love  I'll wear a mask for you.
Here I stand, I'm your man.
My friends are gone and  My hair is grey.  I ache in the places where I used to play.  And I'm crazy for love but  I'm not coming on.  I'm just paying my rent everyday In the Tower Of Song.
You can say that I've grown bitter but of this you can be sure.  The rich have get their channels in the bedrooms of the poor.  And there's a mighty Judgement coming  but I may be wrong…
I see you standing on the other side.  I don't know how the river got so wide.  I loved you, baby, way back when.  And all the bridges are burning that  We might have crossed and I feel so close to everything that we've lost.  We'll never, we'll never have to lose it again. <p> Now I bid You farewell, I don't when I'll be back.  They're moving us tomorrow to that tower down the track.  But you'll be hearing from me, baby, long after I'm gone.  I'll speaking to you sweetly  From a window in the Tower Of Song
I've seen the future, brother: it is murder.
''Waiting for the miracle There's nothing left to do. I haven't been this happy since the end of World War II.''
If you're squeezed for information, that's when you've got to play it dumb: You just say you're out there waiting for the miracle to come.
We're drinking and we're dancing but there's nothing really happening. The place is dead as Heaven on a Saturday night.
''Ring the bells that still can ring. Forget your perfect offering. There is a crack in everything. That's how the light gets in.''
''Every heart to love will come  But like a refugee.''
But I’m stubborn as those garbage bags  that time cannot decay,  I’m junk but I’m still holding up  this little wild bouquet:  Democracy is coming to the U.S.A.
I smile when I'm angry, I cheat and I lie.  I do what I have to do to get by.  But I know what is wrong and I know what is right,  and I'd die for the truth in my secret life.
And here you are hurried,  And here you are gone;  And here is the love,  That it's all built upon.
Here is your cross,  Your nails and your hill;  And here is your love,  That lists where it will
May everyone live,  And may everyone die.  Hello, my love,  And my love, Goodbye.
The light came through the window,  Straight from the sun above,  And so inside my little room  There plunged the rays of Love. <p> In streams of light I clearly saw  The dust you seldom see,  Out of which the Nameless makes  A Name for one like me.
All busy in the sunlight  The flecks did float and dance,  And I was tumbled up with them  In formless circumstance.
I'll try to say a little more:  Love went on and on  Until it reached an open door —  Then Love Itself  Love Itself was gone.
''You whisper, "You have loved enough,  Now let me be the Lover."''
I swept the marble chambers,  But you sent me down below.  You kept me from believing  Until you let me know:  That I am not the one who loves —  It's love that chooses me.  When hatred with his package comes,  You forbid delivery.
Children show scars like medals. Lovers use them as secrets to reveal. A scar is what happens when the word is made flesh.  It is easy to display a wound, the proud scars of combat. It is hard to show a pimple.
I fought against the bottle  but I had to do it drunk
So the great affair is over  but whoever would have guessed  it would leave us all so vacant  and so deeply unimpressed.  It's like our visit to the moon  or to that other star  I guess you go for nothing  if you really want to go that far.
And sometimes when the night is slow  The wretched and the meek  We gather up our hearts and go  A Thousand Kisses Deep.
The candles burned  The moon went down  The polished hill  The milky town  Transparent, weightless, luminous  Uncovering the two of us  On that fundamental ground  Where love's unwilled, unleashed, unbound  And half the perfect world is found.
And clenching your fist for the ones like us who are oppressed by the figures of beauty, you fixed yourself, you said, "Well never mind, we are ugly but we have the music."
What if I had to  Live here without you  Oh, I don't really want to know  Where you goin', Lenny Cohen?
This was a man where, within a Pop Song, there were some big ideas
He's got your young idealism, he's got You when You can't face the world. He's got You at all stages
He's of almost Biblical importance. I don't think theres going to be another Leonard Cohen.
You're a Leonard Cohen song
I tell you who I also think is wonderful is a chap called Leonard Cohen … do you know him? … He's remarkable. I mean, the orchestration is fantastic and the words, the lyrics and everything, he's a remarkable man, and has this incredibly sort of laid back gravelly voice, it's terrific stuff I think.
In the Canadian film ''Hardcore Logo'', a Canadian punk rocker suggests "Faster, Leonard Cohen! Die! Die!" as a possible band name. This also refers to the film ''Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!''.
''I finally broke into the prison  I found my place in the chain  Even damnation is poisoned with rainbows'' Leonard Cohen is one of the few songwriters who has words that you can just chew on for months and months and yet there’s still flavor left in there to taste. That third line is such a positive one, even though it sounds bleak at first. He saying that there is still hope even in the darkest situations, even in the terrible situations that have thrown yourself into, the times where you crawl into a hole and wait for suffering to be piled on top of you. Even in those moments, the clouds pull away and beams of light shine through. That’s the kind of music that I hope never stops being played, even after the writers of such songs are very very far away, or resting deep in the ground.
Give me a Leonard Cohen afterworld  So I can sigh eternally
But I was caught, like a fleeting thought Stuck inside Leonard Cohen's mind
It is their desire to honor L. Cohen, songwriter, that has prompted a delegation of our brightest artists to climb, one by one, joss sticks smoldering, the steep and salty staircase in the Tower of Song. <br /> There is evidence that the honoree might be privy to the secret of the universe, which, in case you’re wondering, is simply this: everything is connected. ''Everything''. Many, if not most, of the links are difficult to determine. The instrument, the apparatus, the focused ray that can uncover and illuminate those connections is language. And just as a sudden infatuation often will light up a person’s biochemical sky more pyrotechnically than any deep, abiding attachment, so an unlikely, unexpected burst of linguistic imagination will usually reveal greater truths than the most exacting scholarship. In fact, the poetic image may be the only device remotely capable of dissecting romantic desire, let alone disclosing the hidden mystical essence of the material world. <br /> Cohen is a master of the quasi-surrealistic phrase, of the “illogical” line that speaks so directly to the unconscious that surface ambiguity is transformed into ultimate, if fleeting, comprehension: comprehension of the bewitching nuances of sex and the bewildering assaults of culture.
It is his singing voice as well as his writing pen that has breathed life into these songs. <br /> It is a voice raked by the claws of Cupid, a voice rubbed raw by the philosopher’s stone. … It is a penitent’s voice, a rabbinical voice, a crust of unleavened vocal toast—spread with smoke and subversive wit. He has a voice like a carpet in an old hotel, like a bad itch on the hunchback of love. It is a voice meant for pronouncing the names of women—and cataloging their sometimes hazardous charms. Nobody can say the word “naked” as nakedly as Cohen. He makes us see the markings where the pantyhose have been.
I don't want, no I really don't want  To be John Lennon or Leonard Cohen I just want to be my Dad.
No one ever listens to me. I might as well be a Leonard Cohen record.
A nation comes to freedom in thousands of steps — some of them huge leaps, the others little. And the evening with Leonard Cohen more than twenty years ago was an evening of hope. Difficult as much to him as it was to us. Not necessarily political but intimate. And I learned to appreciate the power of intimacy. There are moments when nothing can get between you and the other person. And when this person is Leonard Cohen himself you feel blessed. And you feel free.
http://www.leonardcohen.com/ Official website - Leonardcohen.com
http://www.leonardcohenfiles.com/ The Leonard Cohen Files
http://www.serve.com/cpage/LCohen/ Bird on a Wire - Tribute site
http://www.serve.com/cpage/LCohen/lyrics/ Lyrics of Leonard Cohen
http://www.leonardcohenfiles.com/montreal.html Leonard Cohen's Montreal
http://www.leonardcohenfiles.com/warsaw85.html "Warsaw 1985" concert review by Daniel Wyszogrodzki
http://dir.salon.com/story/people/bc/1999/06/15/cohen/ "Take this longing from my tongue" review of Cohen's career by Sean Elder, at ''Salon.com'' (15 June 1999)
http://www.leonardcohen.com/video.html Leonard Cohen videos
