I got jury duty … and I didn't want to go, so my friend said, "You should write something really really racist on the form when you return it. Like, you should put 'I hate chinks'." And I said, "I'm not going to put that on there just to get out of jury duty. I don't want people to think that about me." So instead I wrote, "I love chinks." And who doesn't?
You look like my friend Debbie. That's really ''weird'' … do you get that a lot? — It's sad, though, 'cause you know, we're not really friends anymore. But, uh, it's not your fault. Seriously, it was 'cause she's, um … not "born again Christian" … oh! — "pathological liar."
I'm so glad Courtney Love is here; I left my crack in my other purse.
I commend you on all you've done for PETA, wrestling the one-eyed trouser snake with your bare hands, gently cuddling it in your arms, and nurturing it back to health.
Everybody blames the Jews for killing Christ, and then the Jews try to pass it off on the Romans. I'm one of the few people that believe it was the blacks.
I didn't lose my virginity until I was twenty-six. Nineteen vaginally, but twenty-six what my boyfriend calls "the real way".
I always think I should get on it if I want to have kids. Because once you hit thirty it can be difficult to conceive — it can be dangerous. The best time to conceive is when you're a black teenager.
Wow! She is amazing. She is 25 years old and she's already accomplished everything she's going to accomplish in her life. It's mind blowing … have you seen Britney's kids? Oh my god, they are the most adorable mistakes you will ever see! They are as cute as the hairless vagina they came out of!
This song brings me back … I was brutally raped to this song.
I don't believe in game of telephone. If he existed, Jesus would fuckin' kill himself.
*People who call themselves divas...you are not a diva. I'm pretty sure you're a cunt.
''I love you more than bears love honey,  I love you more than Jews love money, I love you more than Asians are good at math. I love you even if it's not hip, I love you more than black guys don't tip, I love you like Puerto Ricans need baths.''
A couple nights ago, I was licking jelly off my boyfriend's penis. And I thought, "Oh my God — I'm turning into my mother!"
I dated a guy who was half-black, but he dumped me because I'm such a loser. Wow, I shouldn't say things like that, I'm such a pessimist … he's actually half-white.
I don't care if you think I'm racist. I just want you to think I'm thin.
I saw my father's penis once. But it was okay, because I was soooo young … and sooo drunk.
I want to get an abortion. But my boyfriend and I are having trouble conceiving.
I've sued my manager for sexual harassment. And it's real hard, and a big strain on me. Because he hasn't done anything.
I was raped by a doctor … which is so bittersweet for a Jewish girl.
I wear this Saint Christopher medal sometimes because — I'm Jewish — but my boyfriend is Catholic. It was cute, the way he gave it to me. He said if it doesn't burn through my skin, it will protect me. Who cares? Different religions. The only time it's an issue, I suppose, would be like if you're having a baby and you've got to figure out how you want to raise it. Which still wouldn't be an issue for us, because we'd be … honest, and just say, you know, like, "Mommy is one of the chosen people … and daddy believes that Jesus is ''magic''!"
The writers of "Sanford and Son" were so brave in bringing their program to television. I mean, working with all those black people!
When God gives you AIDS — and God ''does'' give you AIDS — make lemon-AIDS!
I buy water at the liquor store across the street from where I live. So I'm walking into the door, and standing, loitering, outside the door is a man. And I walk by him to go in, and he says, ''in a gruff male voice'' "I want pussy!" Now, I don't want to seem conceited or anything, but ''flattered smile'' he was talking about ''me''!
People are always introducing me as "Sarah Silverman, Jewish comedienne." I ''hate'' that! I wish people would see me for who I really am — I'm ''white''!
On the law that requires women to wait twenty-four hours before they are permitted to have an abortion: I think it's a good law. The other day I wanted to go get an abortion. I really wanted an abortion, but then I thought about it and it turned out I was just thirsty.
The Holocaust would never have happened if black people lived in Germany in the 1930s and 40s … well, it wouldn't have happened to Jews.
Also, I learned whether you are gay, bisexual, it doesn't matter, you know … because, at the end of the day, they're both gross. But mostly, I learned that elderly black women are wise beyond their years … but younger black women are prostitutes.
I learned that people in wheelchairs are allowed to have marathons … which, to me, seems like cheating, but what are you gonna say?
''holds up an egg'' This is AIDS. AIDS is as real as an egg.
If we can send a person to the moon, we can send someone with AIDS to the moon, and then someday we can send everybody with AIDS to the moon.
I'll be back. I'll be black. I'll be white black.
{{imdb name|id=0798971|name=Sarah Silverman}}
http://www.comedycentral.com/shows/the_sarah_silverman_program/index.jhtml ''The Sarah Silverman Program'' site on comedycentral.com
http://www.sarahsilvermanonline.com/ Sarah Silverman Online
Jimmy Kimmel for ''Esquire'' magazine (January 2007).
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/21/magazine/21WWLN_Q4.t.html "Questions for Sarah Silverman" in ''The New York Times Magazine'' (21 January 2007)
