In Aberdeen, I hated my best friends with a passion, because they were idiots.
I'd like to live off the band, but if not, I'll just retire to Mexico or Yugoslavia with a few hundred dollars, grow potatoes, and learn the history of rock through back issues of ''Creem'' magazine.
It's really not hard to keep your dignity and sign to a major label...Most people don't have any dignity in the first place.
Rap music is the only vital form of music introduced since punk rock.
I knew I was different. I thought that I might be gay or something because I couldn't identify with any of the guys at all. None of them liked art or music, they just wanted to fight and get laid. It was many years ago but it gave me this real hatred for the average American macho male.
Rape is one of the most terrible crimes on earth. And it happens every few minutes.
Hope I die before I turn into Pete Townshend.
I would like to get rid of the homophobes, sexists, and racists in our audience. I know they're out there and it really bothers me.
We sound like the Bay City Rollers after an assault by Black Sabbath. And, we vomit onstage better than anyone.
If I went to jail, at least I wouldn't have to sign autographs.
I just can’t believe anyone would start a band just to make the scene and be cool and have chicks. I just can’t believe it.
I can’t comment on Soundgarden because I know them personally and I really like them a lot, but I have strong feelings towards Pearl Jam and Alice in Chains and bands like that. They’re obviously just corporate puppets that are just trying to jump on the alternative bandwagon - and we are being lumped into that category.
Zits are beauty marks.
All drugs are a waste of time. They destroy your memory and your self-respect and everything that goes along with your self-esteem. They’re no good at all. But I’m not going to go around preaching against them.
I wouldn’t wear a tie-dyed tee-shirt unless it was dyed with the urine of Phil Collins and the blood of Jerry Garcia.
Yeah, I was run out of town. They chased me up to the castle of Aberdeen with torches. Just like the Frankenstein monster. And I got away in a hot air balloon. And I came here to Seattle.
If you're really a mean person you're going to come back as a fly and eat poop.
Jocks have completely taken over music... And just to get back at them, I’m going to start playing basketball.
I wouldn't have been surprised if they had voted me Most Likely To Kill Everyone At A High School Dance.
The thrill and embarrassment of becoming international pop stars was too much, so we opened our mouths and put our foot in sometimes.
I'm a much happier guy than a lot of people think I am.
I can't play Segovia. The flip side of that is that Segovia could probably never have played like me.
If it was up to me, I'd get more oil tanker drivers drunk. I don’t value music much. I like the Roger Daltrey.
They're claiming that grunge bands finally put Seattle on the map, but, like, what map? ...I mean, we had Jimi Hendrix. Heck, what more do we want?
They (Extreme) surround themselves with these professional, dickhead, commercial rock and roll guys...when they show up at an airport, their manager runs ahead of them and yells at the people greeting them, 'No video! We want a path straight to the van! We don't want any pictures taken!' Y'know, I'm like, "So what?"
Same thing happened in the punk movement in the late 70's...a punk band would start, play one gig, and get signed to a major label right away, 'cause it was a trend. That just shows there are a lot of old school dinosaurs in the record industry who need to be weeded out.
Music comes first; lyrics are secondary. Most of my lyrics are contradictions. I'll write a few sincere lines, and then I'll have to make fun of them. I don't like to make it too obvious, because if it is too obvious, it gets really stale. You shouldn't be in people's faces 100% all the time. We don't mean to be really cryptic or mysterious, but I just think that lyrics that are different and weird and spacey paint a nice picture. It's just the way I like art.
I would like to think there's some purity in us, yeah. Naive - y'know, purposely naive.
Punk Rock (while still sacred to some) is, to me, dead and gone. We just wanted to pay tribute to something that helped us to feel as though we had crawled out of the dung heap of conformity.
I'll be the first to admit that we're the 90's version of Cheap Trick or the Knack but the last to admit that it hasn't been rewarding.
At this point I have a request for our fans. If any of you in any way hate homosexuals, people of different color, or women, please do this one favor for us - leave us the fuck alone! Don't come to our shows and don't buy our records.
Last year, a girl was raped by two wastes of sperm and eggs while they sang the lyrics to our song "Polly". I have a hard time carrying on knowing there are plankton like that in our audience.
To be positive at all times is to ignore all that is important, sacred or valuable. To be negative at all times is to be threatened by ridiculousness and instant discredibility. p. 18
I use bits and pieces of others sic personalities to form my own. p. 95
John Lennon has been my idol all my life but he's dead wrong about revolution... find a representative of gluttony or oppression and blow the motherfuckers sic head off. p. 130
Why in the hell do journalists insist on coming up with a second rate Freudian evaluation on my lyrics when 90% of the time they've transcribed the lyrics incorrectly? p. 190
I mean it seems like there are only two options for songwriters morrissey or michael stipe or robert smith or theres Van Halen or all that other Heavy metal crap. p. 44
Birds...scream at the top of their lungs in horrified hellish rage every morning at daybreak to warn us all of the truth. They know the truth. Screaming bloody murder all over the world in our ears, but sadly we don't speak bird. p. 224
When I hear the term Right wing I think of Hitler and Satan and Civil war. p. 259
I would only wear a tie dyed T Shirt if it were dyed with the urine of Phil Collins and the blood of Jerry Garcia. p. 269
I am not well read, but when I do read, I read well. p. 124
I need an easy friend I do, with an ear to lend.
The lady whom I feel maternal love for Cannot look me in the eyes But I see hers and they are blue And they cock and twist and masturbate.
She loves him more than he will ever know He loves her more than he will ever show
Yes I eat cow I am not proud.
Thank you, dear God For putting me on this Earth I feel very privileged In debt for my thirst
With the lights out, it's less dangerous Here we are now, entertain us I feel stupid, and contagious Here we are now, entertain us.
Load up on guns, and bring your friends.
A mulatto, an albino, a mosquito, my libido.
I found it hard, It was hard to find Oh well, whatever, never mind.
He's the one Who likes all our pretty songs And he likes to sing along And he likes to shoot his gun But he knows not what it means.
Come as you are, as you were As I want you to be As a trend, as a friend, as a known enemy Take your time, hurry up The choice is yours, don't be late.
I'm so happy 'Cause today I found my friends They're in my head. I'm so ugly, that's okay 'Cause so are you, Broke our mirrors.
Polly wants a cracker Think I should get off her first Think she wants some water To put out the blow torch.
Just because you're paranoid Don't mean they're not after you.
One baby to another says I'm lucky to have met you
*I love myself better than you I know it's wrong, but what should I do?
It's OK to eat fish 'Cos they don't have any feelings
Teenage angst has paid off well Now I'm bored and old.
Throw down your umbilical noose so I can climb right back.
*Hate me Do it and do it again Waste me Rape me, my friend.
I miss the comfort in being sad.
The sun is gone But I have a light
I take pride as the king of illiterature.
Give me a Leonard Cohen afterworld So I can sigh eternally.
Hate your enemies Save your friends Find your place Speak the truth.
All in all is all we are.
And the flowers sing in D minor And the birds fly happily.
And if you save yourself You will make him happy.
Things have never been so swell I have never failed to fail.
Something in her eyes Must be the smoke in my lungs.
I need you around To remind me what not to become.
Congratulations, you have won It's a year's subscription of bad puns.
Neither side is sacred; no one wants to win Feeling so sedated; think I'll just give in.
If I may, and if I might Lay me down, weeping.
We're Nirvana and we really don't particularly like heavy metal.
Hello, we're major label corporate rock sell outs.
There is plenty of Hühnerfleisch in the Kühlschrank. (There is plenty of chicken in the fridge.)
Hi, my name is Kurt Cobain, I'm homosexual, I'm a pagan, I'm a drug abuser, and I like to fuck pot-bellied pigs!
We're waiting for the dinosaurs to die out. They will die. And then we'll move into their homes.
I've been waiting for that! (After an audience member requests "Free Bird" by Lynyrd Skynyrd.)
I don't think MTV would let us play that. (After an audience member requests "Rape Me.")
What are they tuning, a harp? I thought we were a big rich rock band. We should have a whole bunch of extra guitars.
What's the matter with all you people at the back, did you come here to see Gloria Estefan?
OK, you trained monkeys, everybody jump up and down. Let's bring back the good old pogo!
I spent all of my life trying to stay away from sports and here I am in a sporting arena.
This song is dedicated to Frank Zappa, and River Phoenix, Fred Gwynne who played Herman Munster, Dixie Lee Ray, Thomas P, Tip O'Neil, and you, dumb ass, who just threw water on me.
It's better to burn out than to fade away.
*Genius is a weird and inappropriate word, and hard work is underrated, but Kurt Cobain had a distinct and personal take on the world, and generally, when someone strikes a chord with his audience, that’s what people respond to...I have to admit that I wasn’t particularly a fan of Nirvana when I was asked to work on ''In Utero'', but during the course of making the record I came to appreciate that they were genuine about their band and their music, that Kurt was capable of sophisticated thinking, and that they and their music were unique.
Nirvana were like...power-chord music with the occasional Sonic Youth-y flip-out in it. But the power of that band is Kurt Cobain's voice, which is just fucking caramel–a beautiful rock voice.
He had a touch most guitarists would kill for.
People were trying to call me to do interviews on the anniversary of Kurt Cobain's death. They want me to say some poignant shit about some poor guy who blew his head off. It's just like, "Give me a fuckin' break, man"...Just say the guy made some good records, and let's get on with it.
I remember watching Kurt come through and thinking, "God, this music is nuclear," This is really splitting the atom. They raised the temperature for everybody. Manufactured pop never looked so cold as when that heat was around. Nirvana made everything else look silly.
I was simply blown away when I found out that Kurt Cobain liked my work, and I always wanted to talk to him about his reasons for covering "Man Who Sold The World." It was a good straightforward rendition and sounded somehow very honest. It would have been nice to have worked with him, but just talking would have been real cool.
Cobain was very shy, very polite, and obviously enjoyed the fact that I wasn’t awestruck at meeting him. There was something about him, fragile and engagingly lost.
I'm sorry I couldn't have spoken to the young man. I see a lot of people at the Zen Center, who have gone through drugs and found a way out that is not just Sunday school. There are always alternatives, and I might have been able to lay something on him. Or maybe not.
That kid has heart.
A couple weeks ago, one of my students gave me a mixed tape of Kurt Cobain and there was a version of "Black Girl" of great artistry. Great vocal control and subtlety, it's almost as good as Leadbelly's.
He's the most talented person I ever worked with because he was talented in so many different ways. He's a guitar player and a lead singer and he wrote all the songs. He did everything for Nirvana that it took Jimmy Page and Robert Plant to do for Led Zeppelin. Kurt also designed the album covers and wrote treatments for the videos. He even designed the t-shirts. He was really a comprehensive genius when it came to the art of rock and roll.
I suddenly realized Michael Pitt was much taller than Kurt, and much more buff, actually. Kurt was a wee little man, with these big piercing blue eyes and this tremendous smile — and that's one thing that nobody can replicate.
I still dream about Kurt. Every time I see him in a dream, I’ll be amazed and I get this feeling that everyone else thinks he’s dead. It always feels totally real, probably because I’m a very vivid dreamer. But, in my dreams, Kurt’s usually been hiding - we’ll get together and I’ll end up asking him, "God, where have you been"
I met him a few times. As a writer I had enormous respect for him. He was an incredible writer and an incredible singer. And when I met him I found him to be a very special person. He was one of those special people. There was a light inside him that you could see. He had a charisma that went beyond his physical presence.
Kurt really reminded me a lot of John Lennon in his writing, singing, and guitar playing. More attitude than technique, but he had incredibly strong rhythm and a great solo sense.
Rage and aggression were elements for Kurt to play with as an artist, but he was profoundly gentle and intelligent.
I went to see Nirvana at a small club called the Pyramid on Avenue A in New York City. It was hard to hear the guitar, but the guy playing and singing had a vibe; he hopped around like a muppet or an elf or something, hunched over his guitar, hop hop hop, hippety hippety hop. I loved that. When he sang, he put his voice in this really grating place, and it was kind of devilish sounding. At the end of the set he attacked the drum kit and threw the cymbals, other bits and finally himself into the audience. Later I saw the same guy passing the bar. He was little, with stringy blond hair and a Stooges T-shirt. I felt proud.
*Kurt Cobain represents a very legit, realistic outlook. Before that, in my head, to be a white artist was to be privileged. You celebrated the glamor and you got respect. But here's someone that was really taking a hip-hop stance on all of that. Who doesn't play their hit single in concert? Are you crazy? He took that nihilistic Sonic Youth approach, that tortured-everyday-guy thing, to the hilt
Cobain changed the course of where the music went. There are certain people where you can see the axis of musical history twisting on them: Hendrix was pivotal, Prince was pivotal, Cobain was pivotal.
In Kurt’s voice I could hear his love of bluegrass music, of Bill Monroe and Leadbelly. It’s in the twang of his voice.
Yeah, he talked a lot about what direction he was heading in. I mean, I know what the next Nirvana recording was going to sound like. It was going to be very quiet and acoustic, with lots of stringed instruments. It was going to be an amazing fucking record, and I’m a little bit angry at him for killing himself. He and I were going to record a trial run of the album, a demo tape. It was all set up. He had a plane ticket. He had a car picking him up. And at the last minute he called and said, "I can't come."
I was in Pioneer Square - I went to see some band, I don't know if it was the the Melvins. Kurt was there - I think Kurt was by himself and I was by myself. I went over to tell him how much I loved ''Bleach''. He was very quiet and subdued. He said, "Thanks - that means a lot coming from you. Consider yourself our biggest influence."
And like I said I love Kurt Cobain and Nirvana, the lyrics are so deep--stuff like "The animals I've trapped have now become my pets".
He's your archetypal small guy - wiry, defiantly working class and fiery.
Kurt's wounds were so deep that when the music floated to the surface after being filtered through his soul, it was incorporeal.
...With Kurt Cobain you felt you were connecting to the real person, not to a perception of who he was - you were not connecting to an image or a manufactured cut-out.
You know, I always thought I'd go first. I don't know why I thought that, it just seemed like I would. I mean, I didn't know him on a daily basis - far from it. But, in a way, I don't even feel right being here without him. It's so difficult to really believe he's gone. I still talk about him like he's still here, you know. I can't figure it out. It doesn't make any sense.
He really, really inspired me. He was so great. Wonderful. One of the best, but more than that. Kurt was one of the absolute best of all time for me.
Kurt Cobain, we was good friends Ozzy Osbourne too.
Everything I love the most get taken away. My momma and music is next. And if that happens before I turn 28. Then I'm going out with Kurt Cobain.
I think I'm Jimi Hendrix, I think I'm Kurt Cobain I think I'm John Lennon, gone insane Someone take this gun, before I blow out my brains (BANG).
And KDC you were much too young And you changed my life But I draw the line at suicide. Here's to Life!
I remember doing nothing on the night Sinatra died And the night Jeff Buckley died And the night Kurt Cobain died And the night John Lennon died.
You can hear them crying down the lane From Portland to Maryland From Greece to Spain.
*A transvestite in trouble, gee  We can make a double CD  People want to see blood,  To see 'em messed up like a Kurt Cobain.
I'll spend my days with J.F.K., Marvin Gaye, Martha Raye, and Lawrence Welk,  And Kurt Cobain, Kojak, Mark Twain and Jimi Hendrix's poltergeist.
And going for the clincher, a girl cries out in vain How Jesus lived 6 years longer than Kurt Cobain And Jesus' hair was longer, and Jesus' arms were stonger And Jesus's eyes were bluer, and Jesus' thoughts were truer.
Thanks to Elvis and Kurt Cobain The world will never be the same.
Just because they knew your name Doesn't mean they know from where you came What a sad trick you thought that you had to play.
It's a shame about your future It's a crime about your past.
Blown away by fame We could all feel the shotgun hit the floor.
What of Kurt Cobain, will his presence still remain?
Where did you sleep last night With the angels locked up tight Love was his only light Did she have another one?
My sister, she says she knows Elvis Presley She knows Jesus, John Lennon, and Kurt Cobain personally.
Kurt Cobain was so young Sad to see this poet's gone.
A whole generation of kids blowin' out their fuckin' brains to this Kurt Cobain music.
*See niggas, they want my name next to Kurt Cobain But I don’t sniff cocaine, I sniff propane.
*A daily dose of eMpTyV Will flush your mind right down the drain Shannon Hoon and Kurt Cobain, Make yourself a household name.
*My favorite color is red, like the blood shed from Kurt Cobain's head, when he shot himself dead.
*Get your brains bashed in so bad You gone have Kurt Cobain asking To autograph a bloodstained napkin.
*Nigga that's no lie, no joke, no game, no fabrication Last name must be Cobain.
*And I want it so bad I'd shoot the sunshine into my veins. I can't remember the good old days.
He lies in an empty room With his hair burnt to the back It sure sounds funny When you say his name like that.
*Or take me away like a bullet from Kurt Cobain.
*I hang with John and Kurt and Jimi too With Sandy, Jannie, Albert, Charlie, the whole departed crew.
Kurt Cobain's rich as fuck He's buried in the ground.
Y hoy me encuentro tan solo y triste<BR>Cual hoja al viento<BR>Quisiera llorar, quisiera morir,<BR>Como Kurt Cobain, de sentimiento.<BR>(And today I am so alone and sad<BR>Like a leaf in the wind<BR>I wish to cry, I wish to die<BR>Like Kurt Cobain, of feeling.)
*I'll finish with a bang like Kurt Cobain's biography.
*Now I'ma pull a fuckin' Jeffrey Dahmer Now he's suicidal, just like Nirvana.
They all stand straight and swing to the side<BR>No heads, but they feet still glide<BR>Take a step back, twist and dive<BR>I even seen Kurt Cobain get live.
The whole world was crying when Kurt's gun went bang<BR>When Eazy-E died though, it wasn't no thang<BR>Rapper dies of A.I.D.S. but you hardly mention<BR>Rocker blows his face off and becomes a legend.
*Get that type of media coverage Obama get, spit that Kurt Vonnegut That blow your brain Kurt Cobain, that Nirvana shit
Trained, raw, like Big Daddy Kane Plus I’m born on the same day as Kurt Cobain
What's coursing through my veins? Horrible, hurts the brain Listen to Jimi Hendrix, worshiping Kurt Cobain The ghetto Edgar Allan Poe
*Frightening, so fucking frightening Enough to drive a man insane, a woman insane The reason Lauryn Hill don't sing, or Kurt Cobain Loaded that clip and then said bang, the drama it bring is crazy
*Give me vanity, give me Kurt Cobain sanity
*This is crack co-caine, I'm Kurt Co-bain And I bang like a C-R-I-P, P-I-R-U high you Ima I-V
*They say that white phantom look so cocaine I hop out the suicide lookin' so Cobain.
And a memory that can ease your pain Like a melody from Kurt Cobain.
*Cobain, Cobain She blows my brain.
*But it's all entertainment Wonder when Cobain blew out his brains, did he blame it? And if those snakes in the industry helped him aim it Started pressing up records before the bullet left the chamber
*Ne me parle pas de travail à la chaîne<BR>Je veux pas finir comme Kurt Cobain.<BR>(Don't talk to me about working on the assembly line I don't wanna end like Kurt Cobain.)
*Yo, I blow your mind like Kurt Cobain.
Way out in Seattle Young Kurt Cobain Snuck out to the greenhouse Put a bullet in his brain.
Keep them high like Kurt Cobain.
Some believe that you are God,  Others say you were an idiot.  But I only see a good, sad man,  Whose name was K. Cobain.
Johnny wishes he was famous Spends his time alone in the basement With Lennon and Cobain And a guitar and a stereo.
Low budget hoes trynna knock ya game, like Did Courtney Love kill Kurt Cobain, from close range Turn his brain to shrimp lo mein?
Maybe I'm crazy, addicted to pain Maybe the cocaine destroyed my brain Private conversations with Kurt Cobain I'm drownin' my fears in the acid rain.
And so I parallel the brains of Cobain.
He gathered up his loved ones And he brought them all around To say, "Goodbye, nice try."
Cobain, can you hear the spheres Singing songs off station to station?
Left on the floor Leaving your body When highs are the lows And lows are the way.
*Maybe if I put a bullet in my brain<BR>They'd remember me like Kurt Cobain<BR>And the parasites on MTV<BR>Would wipe their eyes and act like they knew me .
Yeah the whole Byrd gang's in here, like Kurt Cobain was here.
Sometimes I wonder what goes on inside her mind When she said she thought Dave Grohl had died, and Kurt Cobain was still alive.
Hard luck god, he never had a chance, you know. Incurable romantics never do.
There was this boy who played in a rock n' roll band And he wasn't half bad at saving the world She said he could do no right, so he took his life The story is true.
Toward another, he has gone To breathe an air beyond his own.
Disturbed by the fame Just like Kurt Cobain.
Kurt Cobain reincarnated Sighs and licks his face.
*See the whites of their eyes, white skin, white lies House of Pain white, Everlast, Kurt Cobain white Elvis, simple and plain white, John Wayne white.
*So I watched pay per view and polished my shoes and my gun Was diggin' on Kurt Cobain sing about lithium.
He rocked the United States by flying all over the country and playing that rock and roll He is a good singer He is my rock star.
Xzibit easily dispersed like crack cocaine See I lent my shotgun to Kurt Cobain And the motherfucker never brought it back (Ah, that's wack)
Too late, He sleeps with angels Too soon, He's always on someone's mind.
*You said you liked my Cobain shirt.
