What I'm doing right now, I'm chasing perfection... and if I don't get it, I'm going to get ''this'' close.
First, I want to apologize directly to the young woman involved in this incident. I want to apologize to her for my behavior that night and for the consequences she has suffered in the past year. Although this year has been incredibly difficult for me personally, I can only imagine the pain she has had to endure. I also want to apologize to her parents and family members, and to my family and friends and supporters, and to the citizens of Eagle, Colo.  I also want to make it clear that I do not question the motives of this young woman. No money has been paid to this woman. She has agreed that this statement will not be used against me in the civil case. Although I truly believe this encounter between us was consensual, I recognize now that she did not and does not view this incident the same way I did. After months of reviewing discovery, listening to her attorney, and even her testimony in person, I now understand how she feels that she did not consent to this encounter.  I issue this statement today fully aware that while one part of this case ends today, another remains. I understand that the civil case against me will go forward. That part of this case will be decided by and between the parties directly involved in the incident and will no longer be a financial or emotional drain on the citizens of the state of Colorado.
"I wouldn't mind being Jewish".<ref>{{cite news|url=http://www.jpost.com/Home/Article.aspx?id=17003|title=Kobe Bryant: I wouldn't mind being Jewish |publisher=The Jerusalem Post|date=March 24, 2006|accessdate=September 11, 2010|first=Aaron|last=Kaplowitz}}</ref>
I'm a scorer, not a triple-double player
*Would people be celebrating me if I scored 138 points? You know how it is, some people would, some people wouldn’t. They can all kiss my a– as I’m sure he feels the same way. If you score 138 points, you kind of have a license to tell people to f— off.
Put your big-boy pants on, Just adjust. Just adjust. You can't whine about it. You can't complain about it".
*Reporter:You've been passing more lately, is that gonna continue in the All-Star Weekend, or is that gonna change?
I've been quoted in the past and I will continue to be quoted; I think he's the best player in our league right now.
*Only God can stop Kobe Bryant.
He's an unbelievable player. He's God's gift, something that's going to flash before our eyes and I don't think it's ever going to happen again. The only person I can think about he's catching up with is Michael Jordan.
I give him all the respect in the world. He is the No. 1 player in the league, by far. It’s like that. With a player like him, he just wants that challenge. He’s just that fierce competitor. He doesn’t want to get out-showed. He’s the one who everybody’s afraid of.
I think Kobe Bryant should be at the top of the (MVP) list. His game is unstoppable.
He's definitely the best player in the NBA — to me. I don't know if winning the (MVP) award is important to him or not. But he has three (championship) rings and that's what it's all about.
To me he is the best player in the world right now. That guy doesn't know fear at all. He doesn't care. He would have won it  "Obviously Kobe is an unbelievable player. He can explode for 50 points at any given time. There's nothing we can do about that, and we're just going to have to deal with that. You're never going to stop Kobe. He's just too good. You just have to make him work for what he gets. Kobe is the greatest player I have ever seen at what he does.
You can set the bar at seven and a half feet and tell them nobody has every jumped that before. And they say, 'I can do it.' And they'll go out and try.
