I am a typed director. If I made ''Cinderella'', the audience would immediately be looking for a body in the coach.
Television has done much for psychiatry by spreading information about it, as well as contributing to the need for it.
''The Birds'' could be the most terrifying motion picture I have ever made.''
I’m frightened of eggs, worse than frightened, they revolt me. That white round thing without any holes … have you ever seen anything more revolting than an egg yolk breaking and spilling its yellow liquid? Blood is jolly, red. But egg yolk is yellow, revolting. I’ve never tasted it.
We do not recommend suicide as a way of life.
Television is like the invention of indoor plumbing. It didn't change people’s habits. It just kept them inside the house.
One of television’s great contributions is that it brought murder back into the home, where it belongs.
Seeing a murder on television can … help work off one’s antagonisms. And if you haven’t any antagonisms, the commercials will give you some.
Dialogue should simply be a sound among other sounds, just something that comes out of the mouths of people whose eyes tell the story in visual terms.
Puns are the highest form of literature.
Give them pleasure – the same pleasure they have when they wake up from a nightmare.
Self-plagiarism is style.
Blondes make the best victims. They're like virgin snow that shows up the bloody footprints.
This award is meaningful because it comes from my fellow dealers in celluloid.
I’m not against the police; I'm just afraid of them.
In the documentary the basic material has been created by God, whereas in the fiction film the director is a God; he must create life.
*The silent pictures were the purest form of cinema
Hitch is a gentleman farmer who raises goose flesh.
I'd like to know more about his relationships with women. No, on second thought, I wouldn't.
Here is someone … who has an enormous, inordinate, neurotic fear of disorder. And that's from which he makes his art. He always has his people in a moment of disorder. They think they're in control, they think they have power, they think they have order, and then he just slips the rug out from under them to see what they're going to do.
Like Freud, Hitchcock diagnosed the discontents that chafe and rankle beneath the decorum of civilization. Like Picasso or Dali, he registered the phenomenological threat of an abruptly modernised world.
The man with the navy-blue voice.
:Category:Alfred Hitchcock films
