Wars, conflict, it's all business. "One murder makes a villain. Millions a hero". Numbers sanctify.
I am at peace with God; my conflict is with man.
I am for people. I can't help it.
I remain just one thing, and one thing only — and that is a clown. It places me on a far higher plane than any politician.
I had no idea of the character. But the moment I was dressed, the clothes and the make-up made me feel the person he was. I began to know him, and by the time I walked onto the stage he was fully born.
All I need to make a comedy is a park, a policeman and a pretty girl.
hating them.  Secondly, I was opposed to the Committee on Un-American Activities — a dishonest phrase to begin with, elastic enough to wrap around the throat and strangle the voice of any American citizen whose honest opinion is a minority of one.
I am not religious in the dogmatic sense … I neither believe nor disbelieve in anything.
I believe that faith is a precursor of all our ideas. Without faith, there never could have evolved hypothesis, theory, science or mathematics. I believe that faith is an extension of the mind. It is the key that negates the impossible. To deny faith is to refute oneself and the spirit that generates all our creative forces. My faith is in the unknown, in all that we do not understand by reason; I believe that what is beyond our comprehension is a simple fact in other dimensions, and that in the realm of the unknown there is an infinite power for good.
I am what I am: an individual, unique and different, with a lineal history of an ancestral promptings and urgings, a history of dreams, desires, and of special experiences, of all of which I am the sum total.
Life is a beautiful, magnificent thing, even to a jellyfish. … The trouble is you won't fight. You've given up. But there's something just as inevitable as death. And that's life. Think of the power of the universe — turning the Earth, growing the trees. That's the same power within you — if you'll only have the courage and the will to use it.
I hope we shall abolish war and settle all differences at the conference table... I hope we shall abolish all hydrogen and atom bombs before they abolish us first.
I am not a political man and I have no political convictions. I am an Hitlerism — and we've had our lesson there. I don't want to create a revolution — I just want to create a few more films.
''Look up to the sky  You'll never find rainbows  If you’re looking down.''
Life is a tragedy when seen in close-up, but a comedy in long-shot.
This is a story of a period between two World Wars — an interim in which insanity cut loose. Liberty took a nose dive, and humanity was kicked around somewhat.
Hynkel, the dictator, ruled the nation with an iron fist. Under the new emblem of the double cross, liberty was banished, free speech was suppressed and only the voice of Hynkel was heard.
''Hynkel addressing the crowds, referring to his colleagues: clearly modelled upon Göring and Goebbels  Hynkel: Herring shouldn smelten fine from Garbitsch, und Garbitsch shouldn smelten fine from Herring. Herring und Garbitsch... ''He clasps his hands together''  Translator: His excellency has just referred to the struggles of his early days shared by his two loyal comrades.
Schultz: You must speak.  Jewish barber: I can't.  Schultz: It's our only hope.
I'm sorry, but I don't want to be an emperor. That's not my poisoned men's hard and unkind. We enslave you — who regiment your lives — tell you what to do — what to think or what to feel! Who drill you, diet you, treat you like cattle, use you as cannon fodder. Don't give yourselves to these unnatural men — machine men with machine minds and machine wonderful adventure.  Then, in the name of glorious future that belongs to you, to me and to all of us. Look up, Hannah. Look up.
"By simple common sense I don't believe in God, in none."
The inmates have taken over the asylum!
''Smile though your heart is aching  Smile even though its breaking  When there are clouds in the sky, you'll get by  If you smile with your fear and sorrow  Smile and maybe tomorrow  You'll find that life is still worthwhile <p> If you just  Light up your face with gladness  Hide every trace of sadness  Although a tear may be ever so near  That's the time you must keep on trying  Smile, what's the use of crying?  You'll find that life is still worthwhile.''
A day without laughter is a day wasted.
As I began to love myself I found that anguish and emotional suffering are only warning signs that I was living against my own truth. Today, I know, this is “AUTHENTICITY".
With ''A King in New York'' Charles Chaplin was the first film-maker to dare to expose, through satire and ridicule, the paranoia and political intolerance which overtook the United States in the Cold War years of the 1940s and 50s.
We felt that the public, and especially the children, like animals that are cute and little. I think we are rather indebted to Charlie Chaplin for the idea. We wanted something appealing, and we thought of a tiny bit of a mouse that would have something of the wistfulness of Chaplin — a little fellow trying to do the best he could.
Chaplin had no previous film acting experience when he came to California. By the end of 1915 he was the most famous human being in the entire world. But at the time he first arrived as a greenhorn at the gates of Keystone to try his luck at making a buck in those “galloping tintypes” of 1913, he already had under his belt close to twenty years stage experience in British music hall.
http://www.charliechaplin.com Charlie Chaplin official website
http://www.discoverchaplin.com Discover Charlie Chaplin
http://web.archive.org/web/20000619061630/http://www.time.com/time/time100/artists/profile/chaplin.html The TIME 100: Charlie Chaplin
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000122/ Charles Chaplin at IMDb
http://www.pbs.org/wnet/americanmasters/database/chaplin_c.html American Masters: Charlie Chaplin at PBS
http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~pringle/silent/chaplin/aaronhale.html Brief bio
http://www.chaplinalife.com/ Tribute pages at ''Chaplin : A Life''
