*Suffered from alienation, carried the weight on my own, had to be so strong, so I believed, and now I know I've succeeded, in finding the place I conceived.
You look at me and see the girl, who lives inside the golden world, but don't believe, that's all there is to see, you'll never know the real me.
It seems as though I've always been, somebody outside looking in, well, here I am for all of them to bleed, but they can't take my heart from me, and they can't bring me to my knees, they'll never know the real me.
When you love someone so deeply they become your life, it's easy to succumb to overwhelming fears inside, blindly I imagined I could keep you under glass, now I understand to hold you I must open my hands, and watch you rise.
*Standing alone, eager to just believe, it's good enough to be what you really are, but in your heart, uncertainty forever lies, and you'll always be, somewhere on the outside.
So many I considered, closest to me, turned on a dime and sold me out dutifully, although that knife was chipping away at me, they turned their eyes away and went home to sleep.
I can make it through the rain, I can stand up once again, on my own, and I know, that I’m strong enough to mend, and every time I feel afraid I hold tighter to my faith, and I live one more day and I make it through the rain.
Who's gonna love you when it all falls down? Who's gonna love you when your bankroll runs out? Who's gonna care when the novelty's over? When the star of the show isn't you anymore. Nobody cares when the tears of a clown fall down (I guess your mama never told you what goes around comes back around).
Please be at peace father, I'm at peace with you, bitterness isn't worth clinging to, after all the anguish we've all been through.
Father, thanks for reaching out and lovingly, saying that you've always been proud of me, I needed to feel that so desperately, you're always alive inside of me.
See, I'm looking for a man that'll rub me slow, make me sing real high when he goes down low.
*But instead I kept my tears inside, cause I knew if I, started I'd keep crying for the rest of my life with you, I finally built up the strength to walk away, don't regret it, but I still live with the side effects.
*For the record, "You'll Always Be a Part Of Me" no matter what you do, For the record, can't nobody say I didn't give "My All" to you, For the record, I told you "Underneath The Stars" that you "Belong" to me, For the record, It's obvious that we just "Can't Let Go" of us "Honey".
*This is for my peoples who just lost somebody, your best friend, your baby, your man or your lady, put your hand way up high, we will never say bye, mamas, daddies, sisters, brothers, friends and cousins, this is for my peoples who lost their grandmothers, lift your head to the sky, cause we will never say bye.
*They can say anything they want to say  Try to bring me down  But I won't face the ground
Whenever I watch TV and see those poor, starving kids all over the world, I can't help but cry. I mean, I'd love to be skinny like that, but not with all those flies and death and stuff.
*I love Mariah Carey. Mariah Carey's music saved little ghetto children's lives. Songs like "Vision of Love" gave us hope and we would sing those songs and try to hit every note like Mariah -- which we can't. I don't think she knows what a big part she plays in Mary J. Blige's life. And then to meet her….she's such a beautiful person that you can't do anything but defend her when the media starts acting stupid on her. She doesn't deserve that.
*Mariah has an amazing gift from God that has no color, no boundaries and no limitations. You hear the passion and the honesty within her music
No one would have believed that Mariah Carey could come full circle. Except Mariah.
When others would have quit, overcome by the negativity, she soldiered on - a phoenix rising from the ashes.
She has the voice of an angel.
After I first heard "Vision of Love" (Carey's debut single) I first started doing runs singing harmonic variations on scales
When I discovered Mariah Carey and "Vision of Love," that was a breath of fresh air. And I adored her from that moment on and idolized her. It's really amazing that in articles I've been compared to her.
I discovered Mariah in my room one day listening to the radio, and as soon as 'Vision of Love' came on, I ran downstairs going, ‘Mommy, mommy - I just found the greatest person in the world! I just heard the greatest new voice!'.
Mariah Carey... she is a huge influence on me. I mean, she's amazing.
I love her, she's such a nice person! I had an opportunity to meet her for the first time at the Z100 concert. Randy Jackson was like 'Mariah's here, would you like to meet her?' I said no, I don't wanna meet her! I'm gonna be an idiot in front of her. In my mind, I was saying, 'I'm gonna throw up, I'm gonna throw up!' but the words came out of my mouth. Mariah was laughing at me. It so was funny!
Sorry, but when you sing songs that the great Mariah Carey sings, you run the hugest risk of being compared to icons. And right now, there's no one hotter than Mariah Carey and we're constantly reminded of how brilliant her voice is. It's a big, big, huge risk to take on a song like that.
My theory is that Mariah Carey can sing anything. You hear that expression, 'She can sing the phone book’. If you can really sing, you should be able to sing anything. That's what the whole competition is about.
Mariah Carey has also covered it... and about bloody time! It took 21 years for someone to do a proper cover of one of our songs.
I remember the moment I first heard Vision of Love. Then I saw this white girl with a black voice on television, and everything about her bowled me over. You could relate to her and yet she was a magical icon, and throughout my school days all I dreamed of was being like Mariah Carey. She sang with a gospel choir around her, which was always my dream. I just wanted to be her.
Her friendship is very important to me. And it has provided me with some of my fondest memories and experiences of being in the music industry. It's just great that she is such a down to earth person who just happens to be a little more famous than most of my other friends.
My first impression of Mariah was that she was an incredible singer, very funny (she's always cracking jokes) and just a very nice person to be around.... after 5 years I still feel the same way. I really enjoy being a part of her team. Normally when I work with a new artist I'm not necessarily a "fan", but there's no question Mariah is a truly great singer, so in this case, yes I was (and am) a fan.
I’d heard a lot of good and bad things about Mariah and was pleasantly surprised by her professionalism and her niceness. She’s a lovely lady and a really good actress as well.
Mariah was really nice to work with. You hear lots of rumours about Mariah, that she's very egotistical and other bad stories but I have to say that they're untrue. We had a lot of fun with Mariah and we found her a very down to earth person.
She's brilliant in the studio; I don't think I've heard anyone talk so knowledgeably about the music industry like her. She's very intelligent and very funny - it was a great honour to work with her
We hit it off real well. Every time we get together she is open and she really trusts me. The ingredients are good and there is a chemistry there that you can hear through the music. I can't give her advice on her pop stuff but she will seek it for dance stuff. You know she rarely ever works with a producer. She's a writer and producer in the Lauryn Hill category, she doesn't come into the studio with a superstar attitude, the people around her may give you that impression, but we have a really good relationship.
*Mariah Carey
*Music
*List of people by name
http://www.mariahcarey.com/ Official website
{{imdb name|0001014|Mariah Carey}}
http://www.mariahjournal.com/ Mariah Journal Fansite
http://www.letssingit.com/mariahcarey Mariah Carey lyrics
http://www.mariahdaily.com/ Mariah Daily Fansite
http://www.mcarchives.com/ MC Archives Fansite
http://www.mariahfansite.com/ Mariah Fansite
http://www.mariahpolskae.com/ Mariah Polska Fansite
