I was born with the biggest middle finger on Earth.
I'm into this hip-hop till hell freezes over!
Bitch, I ain't no fucking G, I'm a cannibal! I ain't trying to shoot you, I'm trying to chop you into pieces and eat you!
If you was bleach and I was hair, I wouldn't die (dye) fo' ya'!
If I'm garbage you're a bunch of maggots
See I'm a poet to some, a regular modern day Shakespeare
How 'bout you, you married? "Nah I'm divorced"/ Of course you are, you little fucking trailer park whore./"Trailer? I don't live in no trailer! I live in a mobilization unit, for your information."
Had a dream, I was king, I woke up, still king.
Eminem would fuck you. Slim Shady would fuck you and your mother.{{source}}
I don't care if you're black, white, straight, bisexual, gay, lesbian, short, tall, fat, skinny, rich or poor. If you're nice to me, I'll be nice to you. Simple as that.{{source}}
My rhyming skills got you climbing hills, I'll travel through your mind into your spine like siren drills.
My pen and paper causes a chain reaction, to get your brain relaxing.
You couldn't make the fans throw up their hands if they swallowed their fingers.
You could date a stick of dynamite and wouldn't go out with a bang.
I'll run your brain around the block to jog your fucking memory.
I showered the slang, simple as ABC's / Skip over the D's and rock the microphone with ease (E's).
Cause you can be quick, jump the candlestick, burn your back, and fuck Jill on a hill, but you still ain't jack.
I've got miracle lyrical capability all in me / With the agility to escape a killer bee colony.
You bitches get a hysterectomy disrespecting me! You wanna feel the full effect of me? Hand a TEC to me.
Don't do drugs.
My brain's dead weight, I'm tryin' to get my head straight, but I can't figure out which Spice Girl I want to impregnate.
Since age twelve, I've felt like I'm someone else,'cause I hung my original self from the top bunk with a belt.
My English teacher wanted to have sex with me in Junior High...the only problem was, my English teacher was a guy...I smacked him in his face with an eraser, chased him with a stapler and stapled his nuts to a stack of papers.
99% of my life I was lied to. I just found out my mom does more dope than I do(Damn!). I told her I'd grow up to be a famous rapper, make a record about doing drugs and name it after her (-Oh, thank you!).
All my life I was very deprived, I ain't had a woman in years, and my palms are too hairy to hide (Whoops!).
I spit when I talk, I'll fuck anything that walks (C'mere). When I was little, I used to get so hungry I would throw fits. How you gonna breast-feed me, ma, you ain't got no tits!
Brain damage ever since the day I was born, drugs is what they used to say I was on. They say I never knew which way I was goin'.
What is life? Life is like a big obstacle, put in front of your optical to slow you down, and every time you think you gotten past it, it's gonna come back around and tackle you to the damn ground. What are friends? Friends are people that you think are your friends, but they're really your enemies with secret identities and disguises to hide their true colors, so just when you're close enough to be brothers, they wanna come back and cut your throat when you ain't looking. What is money? Money is what makes a man act funny. Money is the root of all evil. Money'll make them same friends come back around swearing that they was always down. What is life? I'm tired of life!
You beef with me, I'm gonna even the score equally - take you on Jerry Springer, and beat your ass legally.
So if I said I never did drugs, that would mean I lie ''and'' get fucked more than the president does!
Smoke weed, take pills, drop outta school, kill people and drink. Jump behind the wheel like it was still legal!
My middle finger won't go down, how do I wave?
''(imitating Norman Bates)'' Mother, are you there? I love you! I never meant to hit you over the head with that shovel!
I'm in the fourth row, signing autographs at your show.
I just remembered that I'm absent minded... wait, I mean I lost my mind, I can't find it.
Got bitches on my jock out in East Detroit, cause they think that I'm a motherfucking Beastie Boy.
I'm buzzin, Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer, cursin at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You ain't gonna sell two copies if you press a double album.
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall), I have a disease and they don't know what to call it.
You'll get knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson! The proof is in the pudden, just ask DeShaun Holton, I'll slit your motherfucking throat worse than Ron Goldman!
Slim Shady, Eminem was the old initials.
Extortion, snortin, supportin abortion, pathological liar, blowin shit out of proportion, the looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic, impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict, half animal, half man, dumpin your dead body inside of a fuckin trash can, with more holes than an Afghan
They threw me out the Ramada Inn, I said: 'It wasn't me, I got a twin! Oh my god it's you, not again!'
Just trying to buy me some time, then I remembered this magic trick - ''vocalizes the ''Inspector Gadget'' theme song'', Go-Go-Gadget-Dick!
Go go gadget dick!
I like happy things, I'm really calm and peaceful. I like birds, bees, I like people. I like funny things that make me happy and gleeful... like when my teacher sucked my wee-wee in pre-school!
I try to keep it positive and play it cool, shoot up the playground and tell the kids to stay in school.
I listen to your demo tape and act like I don't like it, six months later you hear your lyrics on my shit.
Remember me? I'm the one who burned your house down/But I'm out now/And this time I'm coming back to blow your house up/And I ain't gonna leave you with a window to jump out of!/Give me two fat tabs and three shrooms/And you won't see me like fat people in steam rooms/And when I'm going to hell and I'm getting ready to leave/I'ma put air in a bag and charge people to breathe!
I can't change the way I am … but if I offended you, good. Cause I still don't give a fuck.
Fuck a needle, here's a sword, body pierce with this.
I'm ducked the fuck down while I'm writin this rhyme, cause I'm probably gonna get struck with lightning this time.
I walked into a gunfight with a knife to kill you, and cut you so fast when your blood spilled it was still blue.
I don't rap to get the women, fuck bitches. Give me a fat slut that cooks and does dishes.
*Livin amuk, never givin a fuck Gimme the keys I'm drunk, and I've never driven a truck.
*My brain's gone, my soul's worn and my spirit is torn The rest of my body's still bein operated on.
*There's no way I'll back down, like a goddamn coward. I can't, how would I look? As a man bowing to his knees? Like the mad cow disease, let somebody lash out at me, and not lash back out at him.
*Oh, no. Not me, not Marshall. You want to see Marshall? I'll show you Marshall! I tried to show you art, but you just pick it apart.
Yeah, sue me.
Sometimes I even cut myself to see how much it bleeds, it's like adrenaline: The pain is such a sudden rush for me!
How many retards'll listen to me and run up in the school shootin' when they're pissed at the teacher? "Her? Him? Is it you? Is it them?" "Wasn't me, Slim Shady said to do it again!"
And Dr. Dre said … nothing, you idiots! Dr. Dre's dead, he's locked in my basement!
Will Smith don't got to cuss in his raps to sell records. Well, I do, so fuck him and fuck you too!
*Come on we're going for a ride bitch (No!) Sit up front (Well I can't just leave Hailie alone, what if she wakes up?) We'll be right back... Well I will, you'll be in the trunk
*Kim, KIM! Why don't you like me? You think I'm ugly don't you? (It's not that!) No you think I'm ugly
*You can't run from me Kim, It's just us, nobody else! You're only making this harder on yourself. Ha! Ha! Got'cha! (Ahh!) Ha! Go ahead yell! Here I'll scream with you! AH SOMEBODY HELP!!
A lot of people ask me, stupid fucking questions. A lot of people think that what I say on records, or what I talk about on a record, that I actually do in real life. Or, that I believe in it. Or, if I say that, I want to kill somebody, that I'm actually gonna do it, or that I believe in it. Well, shit. If you believe that, then I'll kill you. Do you know why? Because I'm a criminal!
Oops, I did it again, didn't I? My shit's harder to figure out than what Britney's tit size is.
If I could capture the rage of todays youth and bottle it, crush the glass from my bare hands and swallow it. then spit it back in the faces, of you racists and hypocrites who thinks the same shit, but don't say shit.
I make music to make you sick of fake music — hate music like devil worshippin' Satan music. So say your prayers — your Hail Mary's and Jesuses. Take two sticks, tape 'em together and make a crucifix.
*There's no such thing, like a female with good looks who cooks and cleans.
I maybe made some mistakes, but I'm only human. But, I'm man enough to face 'em today. What I did was stupid, no doubt it was dumb. But, the smartest shit I did was take the bullets out of that gun. Because I'd have killed them. Shit, I'd have shot Kim and them both. It's my life, I'd like to welcome you all to 'The Eminem Show'.
I love my fans, but no one ever puts a grasp on the fact I've sacrificed everything I have. I never dreamt I'd get to the level that I'm at. This is whack, this is more than I ever coulda asked. Everywhere I go, a hat, a sweater hood or mask, what about math, how come I wasn't ever good at that? It's like the boy in the bubble who never could adapt. I'm trapped, if I could go back, I never would've rapped.
Moby? You can get stomped by Obie! You 36-year-old bald headed fag, blow me. You don't know me; you're too old. Let go, it's over. Nobody listens to techno!
*Brainwashed from rock and rap.
*They say music can alter moods and talk to you. Well, can it load a gun up for you and cock it too? If it can, then the next time you assault a dude, just tell the judge that it was my fault, and I'll get sued!
If I'm such a fucking menace? This shit doesn't make sense, B! It's all political. If my music is literal, then I'm a criminal. How the FUCK can I raise a little girl? I couldn't, I wouldn't be fit to.
Of course this shit's affecting our sales, you ignoramus! But, music is reflection of self, we just explain it, and then we get our checks in the mail. It's fucked up, ain't it? How we can come from practically nothing to being able to have any fucking thing that we wanted. That's why we sing for these kids who don't have a thing, except for a dream and a fucking rap magazine. Who post pin up pictures on their walls all day long, idolize their favorite rappers and know all their songs! Or, for anybody whose ever been through shit in their lives. So, they just sit up at night and cry. Wishing they'd die, until they throw on a rap record and they sit and they vibe. We're nothing to you, but we're the fucking shit in their eyes! That's why we seize the moment, and try to freeze it and own it, squeeze it and hold it, because we consider these minutes golden and maybe they'll admit it when we're gone. Just let our spirits live on, through our lyrics that you hear in our songs!
What, you're tryin' to be my new wife? What're you, Mariah? Fly through twice!
I've never loved you enough to trust you, we just met and I just fucked you!
Put anthrax on your Tampax and slap you 'till you can't stand! Girl, you just blew your chance, don't mean to ruin your plans!
My song can make you cry, take you by surprise. At the same time, can make your dry your eyes with the same rhyme. See what you're seeing is a genius at work, which to me isn't work, so it's easy to misinterpret it at first.
More pain inside of my brain than in the eyes of a little girl inside of a plane aimed at the World Trade!
'Cause sometimes you feel tired, feel weak, and when you feel weak, you feel like you wanna just give up. But you gotta search within you, you gotta find that inner strength and just pull that shit out of you and get that motivation to not give up and not be a quitter, no matter how bad you wanna just fall flat on your face and collapse.
Music is like magic. There's a certain feeling you get when you real and you spit and people are feelin' your shit."
This is your moment, and every single minute you spend tryin' to hold on to it, cuz you may never get it again; so while you're in it try to get as much shit as you can and when your run is over just admit when it's at its end.
A plaque and platinum status iIs whack if I’m not the baddest."
*"20 million other white rappers emerge, but no matter how many fish in the sea, it'll be so empty without me!"
*This world is mine for the taking, make me king!
"Lose Yourself".
*Look, if you had one shot or one opportunity to seize everything you ever wanted in a moment, would you capture it, or just let it slip ?
Let the president answer a higher anarchy. Strap him with an AK-47, let him go, fight his own war. Let him impress daddy that way. No more blood for oil, we got our own battles to fight on our own soil.
And I don't even gotta make no goddamn sense, I just did a whole song and I didn't say shit!
I'll never forget that Christmas, I sat up the whole night crying ‘cause daddy felt like a bum, see daddy had a job, but his job was to keep the food on the table for you and mom.
We're all we got in this world, When it spins, when it swirls, When it whirls, when it twirls, Two little beautiful girls.
If they don't let us in through the front? We'll come through the side!
Fuck money. I don't rap for dead presidents; I'd rather see the president dead. It's never been said, but I set precedents.
I said nice rectum, I had a vasectomy, Hector, so you won't get pregnant if I bisexually wreck ya"
If you could count the skeletons in my closet, under my bed and up under my faucet, then you would know I've completely lost it. Is he nuts? No he's insane!
You can be a permanent fixture in my lyrical mixture.
Better try to stay wide awake, or you might end up found dead by the lake.
Maybe just an ice cold brew what's a beer, that's the devil in my ear, I've been sober a fucking year and that fucker still talks to me, he’s all I can fuckin' hear "Marshall, come on, we'll watch the game, it's the Cowboys and Buccaneers!"
Alot of people ask me... Where the fuck I've been at the last few years? Shit, I don't know... But I do know I'm back now!
Nobody asked for life to deal us with these bullshit hands we´re dealt. We gotta take these cards ourselves and flip ém, don´t expect no help!
*Sixty slutz all of them dying from asphyxia/after they sip piss through a Christopher Reeves sippie cup
Wack job in the back with a black stocking cap/Jacking off to a hockey mask in a boxing match
I stuck my dick in this game like a rapist. They call me 'Slim Roethlisberger'!
Now get off my dick, dick's too short of a word for my dick, get off my antidisestablishmentarianism you prick
Ya'll are Eminem backwards, you're mini-mes
And love is "evol" spell it backwards I'll show you.
I'd shoot for the moon, but I'm too busy gazing at stars.
And like a 'Fuck You' for Christmas, his gift is a curse.
You could try and read my lyrics off of this paper before I lay them. But, you won't take the sting out of these words before I say them.
*I been through the ringer, but they could do little to the middle finger.
*There's a seven disc C.D. changer in her car, and I'm in every single slot, and you're not.
*You'll never slow the momentum at any moment I'm about to blow. Look at these rappers, how I treat them, So why the fuck would I join them when I beat them, They call me a freak, because I like to spit on these pussies before I eat them.
*If she ever tries to fucking leave again, Im'a tie her to the bed and set this house on fire.
*Now you get to watch her leave out the window, Guess that's why they call it 'window pane'.
I told the world one day I would pay it back,
*So sick, I'm looking pale. Well, that's my pigment.
*Question is, are you bozos smart enough to feel stupid?
*You bird-brained baby. I ain't called anybody baby since Birdman; unless you're a swallow.
*So spread the word cause I'm promoting my past until I'm passed out.
*This is the only thing I know.
*Kept my ear to the streets, signed Eminem. He's triple platinum; doing fifty a week.
*Hey, Em! You know you're my favorite white boy, right? I owe you for this one.
{{Official website|http://www.eminem.com/}}
