I'm an instant star. Just add water and stir.
I get offered so many bad movies. And they're all raging queens or transvestites or Martians.
I always had a repulsive need to be something more than human. I felt very puny as a human. I thought, "Fuck that. I want to be a superhuman."
I think fame itself is not a rewarding thing. The most you can say is that it gets you a seat in restaurants.
It's odd but even when I was a kid, I would write about "old and other times" as though I had a lot of years behind me. Now I do, so there is a difference in the weight of memory. When you're young, you're still "becoming", now at my age I am more concerned with "being". And not too long from now I'll be driven by "surviving", I'm sure. I kind of miss that "becoming" stage, as most times you really don't know what's around the corner. Now, of course, I've kind of knocked on the door and heard a muffled answer. Nevertheless, I still don't know what the voice is saying, or even what language it's in.
Strangely, some songs you really don't want to write. I didn't like writing "Heathen". There was something so ominous and final about it. It was early in the morning, the sun was rising and through the windows I could see two deer grazing down below in the field. In the distance a car was driving slowly past the reservoir and these words were just streaming out and there were tears running down my face. But I couldn't stop, they just flew out. It's an odd feeling, like something else is guiding you, although forcing your hand is more like it.
Heathenism is a state of mind. You can take it that I'm referring to one who does not see his world. He has no mental light. He destroys almost unwittingly. He cannot feel any Gods' presence in his life. He is the 21st century man. However, there's no theme or concept behind Heathen, just a number of songs but somehow there is a thread that runs through it that is quite as strong as any of my thematic type albums.
I had to resign myself, many years ago, that I'm not too articulate when it comes to explaining how I feel about things. But my music does it for me, it really does. There, in the chords and melodies, is everything I want to say. The words just jolly it along. It's always been my way of expressing what for me is inexpressible by any other means.  What is very enlightening for me right now is that I sense that I'm arriving at a place of peace with my writing that I've never experienced before. I think I'm going to be writing some of the most worthwhile things that I've ever written in the coming years. I'm very confident and trusting in my abilities right now. But I've got to think of myself as the luckiest guy. Robert Johnson only had one album's worth of work as his legacy. That's all that life allowed him.
All the young dudes Carry the news Boogaloo dudes Carry the news.
Nothing much could happen Nothing we can't shake Oh we're absolute beginners With nothing much at stake As long as you're still smiling There's nothing more I need I absolutely love you But we're absolute beginners. But if my love is your love We're certain to succeed.
Ground Control to Major Tom. Ground Control to Major Tom. Take your protein pills and put your helmet on.
This is Major Tom to Ground Control. I'm stepping through the door, And I'm floating in a most peculiar way. And the stars look very different today.<p>For here Am I sitting in a tin can, Far above the world. Planet Earth is blue, And there's nothing I can do.
I'm the cream Of the great utopia dream. And you're in the gleam In the depths of your banker's spleen.
In the corner of the morning in the past I would sit and blame the master first and last. All the roads were straight and narrow And the prayers were small and yellow. And the rumour spread that I was aging fast. Then I ran across a monster who was sleeping By a tree. And I looked and frowned and the monster was me.
Day after day They send my friends away To mansions cold and grey. To the far side of town Where the thin men stalk the streets While the sane stay underground.<p>Day after day, They tell me I can go. They tell me I can blow To the far side of town Where it's pointless to be high, 'Cause it's such a long way down.
Man is an obstacle, sad as the clown (Oh by jingo) So hold on to nothing, and he won't let you down.
Live to your rebirth and do what you will (Oh by jingo) Forget all I've said, please bear me no ill.
We passed upon the stair, we spoke of was and when Although I wasn't there, he said I was his friend Which came as some surprise I spoke into his eyes I thought you died alone, a long long time ago.
When all the world was very young And mountain magic heavy hung The supermen would walk in file Guardians of a loveless isle.
Still don't know what I was waiting for And my time was running wild. A million dead-end streets and Every time I thought I'd got it made It seemed the taste was not so sweet. So I turned myself to face me But I've never caught a glimpse Of how the others must see the faker I'm much too fast to take that test.
I watch the ripples change their size But never leave the stream Of warm impermanence. So the days float through my eyes But still the days seem the same. And these children that you spit on As they try to change their worlds Are immune to your consultations. They're quite aware of what they're going through.
Ch-ch-ch-ch-Changes Turn and face the strange.
It's a god-awful small affair To the girl with the mousy hair But her mummy is yelling "No" And her daddy has told her to go But her friend is nowhere to be seen Now she walks through her sunken dream To the seat with the clearest view And she's hooked to the silver screen. But the film is a saddening bore 'Cause she's lived it ten times or more.
Pushing through the market square, so many mothers sighing News had just come over, we had five years left to cry in. News guy wept and told us, earth was really dying Cried so much his face was wet, then I knew he was not lying.
There's a starman waiting in the sky He'd like to come and meet us, But he thinks he'd blow our minds.
Making love with his ego Ziggy sucked up into his mind Like a leper messiah. When the kids had killed the man I had to break up the band.
Ziggy played guitar.
(Hey man) oh leave me alone you know (Hey man) oh Henry, get off the phone, I gotta (Hey man) I gotta straighten my face This mellow thighed chick just put my spine out of place.
Oh don't lean on me man, cause you can't afford the ticket Back from Suffragette City Oh don't lean on me man 'Cause you ain't got time to check it You know my Suffragette City Is outta sight...she's all right ...Ah wham, bam, thank you ma'am!
Who'll love Aladdin Sane? Battle cries and champagne just in time for sunrise.
This ain't rock'n'roll. This is genocide!
You've got your mother in a whirl She's not sure if you're a boy or a girl. Hey babe, your hair's alright. Hey babe, let's go out tonight. You like me, and I like it all. We like dancing and we look divine. You love bands when they're playing hard. You want more and you want it fast.
Rebel Rebel, you've torn your dress. Rebel Rebel, your face is a mess. Rebel Rebel, how could they know? Hot tramp, I love you so!
Do you remember, your President Nixon? Do you remember, the bills you have to pay? Or even yesterday?
Fame, (fame) makes a man take things over Fame, (fame) lets him loose, hard to swallow Fame, (fame) puts you there where things are hollow Fame (fame)<p>Fame, it's not your brain, it's just the flame That burns your change to keep you insane (sane).
Don't let me hear you say life's taking you nowhere, angel Come get up my baby. Look at that sky, life's begun Nights are warm and the days are young Come get up my baby.
You're such a wonderful person But you got problems oh-oh-oh-oh I'll never touch you.
I, I nothing will keep us together  We can beat them, forever and ever  Oh, we can be heroes just for one day.
I, I will be king. And you, you will be queen. Though nothing will drive them away. We can beat them, just for one day. We can be heroes, just for one day.
Ashes to ashes, funk to funky We know Major Tom's a junkie Strung out in heaven's high Hitting an all-time low.
See these eyes so green…  I can stare for a thousand years  Colder than the moon  It's been so long…  And I've been putting out fire…  ''With gasoline!''
See these eyes so red  Red like jungle burning bright  Those who feel me near  Pull the blinds and change their minds.
Still this pulsing night  A plague I call a heartbeat  Just be still with me  Ya wouldn't believe what I've been thru.
Never gonna fall for Modern love — walks beside me. Modern love — walks on by. Modern love — gets me to the church on time. Church on time — terrifies me. Church on time — makes me party. Church on time — puts my trust in God and man. God and man — no confessions. God and man — no religion. God and man — don't believe in modern love.
My little China Girl You shouldn't mess with me. I'll ruin everything you are. I'll give you television. I'll give you eyes of blue. I'll give you a man who wants to rule the world.
Let's dance — put on your red shoes and dance the blues. Let's dance — to the song they're playin' on the radio. Let's sway — while colour lights up your face. Let's swa —, sway through the crowd to an empty space.
And if you say run, I'll run with you And if you say hide, we'll hide. Because my love for you Would break my heart in two. If you should fall Into my arms And tremble like a flower.
Let's dance for fear your grace should fall  Let's dance for fear tonight is all
God is an American. I'm afraid of Americans. I'm afraid of the world. I'm afraid I can't help it. I'm afraid I can't
Steel on the skyline  Sky made of glass  Made for a real world  All things must pass  Ooo  Waiting for something  Looking for someone  Is there no reason?
And there's never gonna be enough money  And there's never gonna be enough drugs  And I'm never ever gonna get old  There's never gonna be enough bullets  There's never gonna be enough sex  And I'm never ever gonna get old  So I'm never ever gonna get high  And I'm never ever gonna get low  And I'm never ever gonna get old
The tragic youth was going down on me (...) I've been right and I've been wrong Now I'm back where I started from Never looked over reality's shoulder
*Soon there'll be nothing left of me Nothing left to release
Where are we now?  Where are we now?  The moment you know  You know, you know  As long as there's sun  As long as there's sun  As long as there's rain  As long as there's rain  As long as there's fire  As long as there's fire  As long as there's me  As long as there's you
http://www.davidbowie.com/ The official David Bowie web site
http://www.bowiewonderworld.com/contents.htm Bowie Wonderworld
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000309/ IMDb entry on Bowie
http://www.teenagewildlife.com/ Teenage Wildlife
http://5years.com/ The Ziggy Stardust Companion
http://www.parareligion.ch/bowie.htm David Bowie and the Occult
http://www.worlds.net/hotlinks/David_Bowie.html List of David Bowie related websites
http://www.manofmusic.com/ Manofmusic
http://www.npg.org.uk/live/search/person.asp?LinkID=mp06534 David Bowie portraits at the National Portrait Gallery London
