I was born at the age of twelve on a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer lot.
You are never so ''alone'' as when you are ill on stage. The most nightmarish feeling in the world is suddenly to feel like throwing up in front of four thousand people.
I've never looked through a keyhole without finding someone was looking back.
I'm just an Irish biddy.
Go and tell that nasty, rude little princess that we've known each other for long enough and gabbed enough in ladies' rooms that she should skip the ho-hum royal routine and just pop over here and ask me herself. … Tell her I'll sing if she christens a ship first.
Wouldn`t it be wonderful if we could all be a little more gentle with each other, and a little more loving, have a little more empathy, and maybe we'd like each other a little bit more.
As for my feelings toward "Over the Rainbow", it's become part of my life. It is so symbolic of all dreams and wishes that I'm sure that's why people sometimes get tears in their eyes when they hear it.
Always be a first-rate version of yourself, instead of a second-rate version of somebody else.
I wanted to believe, and I tried my damnedest to believe, in the rainbow I tried to get over, and I couldn't! … So what? Lots of people can't!
I wish you would mention the joy she had for life, that’s what she gave me. If she was the tragic figure they say she was, I would be a wreck, wouldn't I? It was her love of life that carried her through everything. The middle of the road was never for her — it bored her. She wanted the pinnacle of excitement. If she was happy, she wasn’t just happy, she was ecstatic. And when she was sad, she was sadder then anyone. She lived eight lives in one, and yet I thought she would outlive us all. She was a great star, and a great talent, and for the rest of my life I will be proud to be Judy Garland's daughter. It wasn’t suicide, it wasn’t sleeping pills, it wasn’t cirrhosis. I think she was just tired, like a flower that blooms and gives joy and beauty to the world and then wilts away.
My mom was a phoenix who always expected to rise again from the ashes of her latest disaster. And in spite of her self-doubts, she had a very strong sense of who she was. She had a sense of self-worth. She loved being Judy Garland. Did she secretly long to be Frances Gumm? Somebody, Minnesota housewife? Are you kidding? She'd have run off with a vaudeville troupe just the way my grandfather did.
I really hadn't intended on becoming a professional musician, but that isn't to say that I didn't have the dreams of being a Judy Garland in some sort of wonderful musical where this music came out of nowhere; things like that.
*{{imdb name | id=0000023 | name=Judy Garland}}
http://www.thejudygarlandpage.com The Judy Garland Page
http://www.jgdb.com The Judy Garland Database
http://www.classicactresses.com/judy.html Judy Garland at Classic Actresses
http://movies.groups.yahoo.com/group/thejudygarlandexperience/ The Judy Garland Experience
*http://www.judygarlandclub.org The Judy Garland Club: established 1963; official international Club supported by Judy during her lifetime
*http://www.thejudyroom.com The Judy Room
*http://www.triviatribute.com/judygarland.html TV and Movie Trivia Tribute: Judy Garland
