I am a raging alcoholic, but I don't want my kids to do the same.
I love you all; I love you more than life itself, but you're all fucking mad!
I keep hearing this expletive thing that guns don't kill people, but people kill people. If that's the case, why do we give people guns when they go to war? Why not just send the people?
Who the fuck is Justin Bieber?
Bubbles! Oh come on Sharon! I'm fucking Ozzy Osbourne, the Prince of fucking Darkness. Evil! Evil! What's fucking evil about a buttload of fucking bubbles!?
We are not going to continue until we hear the fucking roof rattle.
I like the word fuck. Fucking deal with it and move on to the first fucking question you have.
I can honestly say, all the bad things that ever happened to me were directly, directly attributed to drugs and alcohol. I mean, I would never piss on a piece of stone at the fucking Alamo at nine o'clock in the morning dressed in a woman's evening dress sober. I mean I know I'm a fucking crazy-ass but still.
All that stuff about heavy metal and hard rock, I don't subscribe to any of that. It's all just music. I mean, the heavy metal from the Seventies sounds nothing like the stuff from the Eighties, and that sounds nothing like the stuff from the Nineties. Who's to say what is and isn't a certain type of music?
I push this one button and the shower goes on and I think, where the fuck am I?
I live in a 9 million dollar turd.
We're the Osbournes, and I love it.
I hate these fucking stretch bastards junk pimp mobiles!
Turn that thing off, its driving me mad!
International rock star - gravy maker extraordinaire.
You don't need to hire a dog therapist, you just need to wake up at 7 am and open the fucking door!
Well, its not that bad. I thought she was going to show me a picture of uhhhh...an eagle on her ass or something.
All you have to do is say Fuck Off when the vagina doctor calls.
''Kelly, after he's become suspicious'' You haven't been playing doctors and nurses have you?
Its like Dr. Doolittle in this fucking house here.
No we won't -- no we won't break the law Sharon.
Weather in Afghanistan, 2000 degrees and cloudy. What the fuck am I doing? I'm stuck on the weather channel. AHHH!
How the fuck you feed a tree?...What...you put a ham sandwich on the tree?
''after one of his dogs urinated in the bedroom'' Who pissed!!? Who pissed on my fucking carpet!?! That bastard fucking dog man. I'm going to throw you in the pool! Get the fuck out of my house! Why do they do it Sharon? Whats the deal man? It's a fucking terrorist man! It's fucking part of Bin Laden's gang! Fucking Ali Baba used to go work on this rug.
''Sharon'' Merry xmas....now fuck off.
I like warming my butt by the fire.
''while lighting a fire on the beach'' Fuck! Go to Alaska! No, no, no, no. You fucking asshole ocean! No!
I've had this TV for 7 years, this is how it works. Power on - it comes on. Simple clicker, volume control - piece of piss. Works every time.... what the fuck's this? What am I doing? JACK!!
I've done a lot worse than jump off piers, son. Like throw a television out the window.
Let me explain something to you - you have not been standing in front of thirty thousand decibals for thirty-five years - write me a note!
Nobody tells me fuck all!
This will end in tears.
The downside of being outrageous is that you have to go around explaining your fucking self to people. If you're too cocky, somebody might just pull out a fucking gun and cock it and blow your fucking face off. You gotta be really careful what you bite off. Don't bite off more than you can chew. It's a dangerous world.
...the other day, I went to a chiropractor. He's just a regular chiropractor. Whenever I meet someone who doesn't know me, they say, 'Oh you're the guy who bites the heads off everything.' I get kind of cheesed off with it, but at least they remember. The thing that pisses me off is that that's not what I'm about. If that's what you think Ozzy Osbourne's about, then you're way off.
I have no regrets except that I wasn't up to keep Randy (Rhoads) from getting on that plane.
I've had every known chemical--cocaine, booze--and tobacco is the hardest one in the world for me to quit. You watch old flicks? It's suggestion by looking at something: You see a cigarette, and it makes you want to smoke!
I miss the lack of melody in current music as well. I mean, a lot of people think I'm crazy for liking Creed and I like them purely because they sing! I mean, the singer of Creed sings like the guy from Pearl Jam, very close kind of voice. But I like the fact that Creed sing. I don't care if they're a Bible band, Satan band…
Here's the thing. I always hear that whole 'metal is dead' crap. The truth of the matter is that when we started the Ozzfest, media-wise, yes, metal was dead. But as far as the kids went, it was still huge. It was just that radio and MTV decided it wasn't in vogue with what they wanted to do at the time, so the average person didn't hear too much about it. That's why when it comes to picking the new acts each summer, we have people out there on the internet and in the clubs looking for good music and finding bands that people are excited about. I want to know what the kids are into, because I don't trust the industry.
I'm about caring, I'm about people, and I'm about entertaining people. I'm a family man. A husband. A father. I've been a lot of other things over the years, which we don't really want to talk about. I'm always working on trying to better myself, you know? I think that that is an ongoing thing with me. I think I'll do that for the rest of my life. I'm always thinking of what I can do today to better my life.
I kept hearing that metal is dead and Ozzy's dead and people that like Ozzy are dead. I have never had an empty seat. I've always sold out, so who's saying it's all over?
I don't consider myself a great singer--but I have a connection with the audience. There's the artist, and then a void and the audience; but I like to be part of the audience. I'd like to be them, and I'd like them to be me for an hour and a half. I get criticized for being the antichrist, causing kids to commit suicide, but that's total bullsh-t. My intentions are not that. Every year they have Halloween, and all I do is take Halloween night out on the road every night. It's like a Halloween party every night. If that was the case on Halloween night, the police cells would be full--everyone would have turned Satanic for the night!
It took a lot of water to down just that fucking bat's head, let me tell you. It's still stuck in my fucking throat, after all these years. People all over the world say, 'You're the guy who kills creatures? You still do it? You do it every night?' It happened fucking once, for Christ's sake.
When we did that album (Vol. 4) it was like one big Roman orgy-we'd be in the Jacuzzi all day doing coke, and every now and then we'd get up to do a song.
Somebody said to me this morning, 'To what do you attribute your longevity?' I don't know. I mean, I couldn't have planned my life out better. By all accounts I should be dead! The abuse I put my body through: the drugs, the alcohol, the lifestyle I've lived the last 30 years! Now, some rare fly will fly over me, crap on my shoulder, and I'll drop dead, you know? My life story is a real-life story.
I have a message for anyone coming to the Ozzfest this summer (Summer, 2000): If you're planning to jump up onstage during my set, please do not give me any bear hugs, because they fucking hurt. Listen to me, I'm dead serious. On the first night of last year's tour, this enormous guy jumped up onstage and gave me a huge bear hug. He crushed 3 of my ribs and I had to do the whole tour in absolute agony. I couldn't believe it, the first fucking show!
I have a saying. 'Never judge a book by its cover'. I say that because I don't even know who Ozzy is. I wake up a new person every day. But if you've got a fantasy of Ozzy, who am I to say? I mean, if you think I sleep upside-down in the rafters and fly around at night and bite people's throats out, then that's your thing. But I can tell you now, all I ever wanted was for people to come to my concerts and have a good time. I don't want anyone to harm themselves in any way, shape or form-and my intentions are good whether people want to believe it or not. I'm not going to suddenly become a Jesus freak or anything. But I do have my beliefs and my beliefs are certainly not satanic.
There is something fucking unbelievable about seeing all of the fans go crazy and chanting 'Ozzy!' I would pay to see them..
When you're young, you're stupid. You do silly things. I did it (the O-Z-Z-Y tattoo across his knuckles) when I was 14. I was in jail for something. I could have had it removed, but why? It's my trademark. People stop me and say, 'Let me have a look at your hand.'
The idea of a band nowadays is 5 pretty boys, one with a tattoo, one with a shaved head, and on and on. What the fuck is that? I mean, I like Britney Spears, I think she's pretty, but I'm not from the Mickey Mouse Club-I'm from the Godzilla Club!
There's not a stupidest thing--I've dressed in women's clothes, I've dressed as a Nazi. I've gone onstage naked. I've gone on so drunk I didn't even know I did a show. I've done so many stupid things, but it's all part of Ozzy. I never pre-planned 99.9% of the things I've done. Some were drastically wrong, some were drastically right. I don't know if you saw the VH1 thing VH1's Behind The Music Ozzy documentary recently. In one hour, it's impossible to write my life down. I come from a rather large family, three older sisters and two younger brothers. On the documentary, they interviewed my sister and it was the first time I'd seen her in years. I've had a very, very unique life. I often sit back and remember when I had no money--when you're in the middle of it, you get depressed thinking it's going to last forever. All of a sudden, out of nowhere--a bolt of lightning--here I am! I'm very well-off; I've got property all over the place, I've had a very fruitful career. But I've never had a No.1 album in America. But I've lasted several generations and somebody says to me, "Do you notice any difference in the audience?" I've been doing it now for 30 years. Some of the fans are older, but I've picked up new fans along the way.
...as you'll know, the word 'fuck' sort of is used quite a lot in my house. Now, that's not to say, I think to say 'fuck this' or 'fuck you' a lot more, so it should be entered into the English language, because it has a lot more impact when you say, 'I fucking hate this thing.'
The biggest thing has been realizing how much people really do love the early Sabbath music. People have said it in the past but I've never really believed them before. I remember years ago when Metallica opened up for me, I went backstage and they were playing old Black Sabbath albums and I thought they were taking the piss! They said, 'No, we really love Sabbath.' I couldn't see that at the time--because towards the end of my time with Sabbath 20 years ago I thought what we were doing was boring and stupid, because we were boring and stupid, totally sick of what we were doing and totally out of our brains with drink or drugs when we were playing it.
I've been dictating to my son, who's helping me on his computer. I'm spending a lot of time doing research--I've just got up to 1971, when I went crazy and dived through the window. My life is so full of interesting stories...
I like the smell of armpits in the morning. It's like victory.
I'm not picking up dog shit. I'm a rock star.
''on Kelly's drummer friend'' Anyone that beats fucking skins for a living has got to be somewhat weird.
When I was a practicing alcoholic, I was unbelievable. One side effect was immense suspicion: I'd come off tour like Inspector Clouseau on acid. 'Where's this cornflake come from? It wasn't here before.'
Dimebag was a dear friend of mine, I'm absolutely beside myself with grief. I can't for the life of me understand why someone would do this. Pantera toured with me many, many times. I'll always remember the signed guitar that he gave me at my 50th birthday party. My heart goes out to Dime's family, his fans and the other innocent victims who were killed in this senseless tragedy. It's just terribly, terribly sad.
Where do I live?
Sometimes I'm scared of being Ozzy Osbourne. But it could have been worse. I could have been Sting.
People say it's hard at the top, but it's even harder at the bottom.
God, beam me up!
I wonder where that bat is now? Maybe he's sitting in Bat Heaven somewhere, with his own bat roadies...
People look to me and say Is the end near, when is the final day? What's the future of mankind? How do I know, I got left behind
*Nobody ever told me, I found out for myself, You gotta believe in foolish miracles, it's not how you play the game, it's if you win or lose, you can choose, don't confuse, win or lose.
I've listened to preachers, I've listened to fools I've watched all the dropouts Who make their own rules One person conditioned to rule and control The media sells it and you live the role
Everybody's having fun, except me I'm the lonely one I live in shame.
I had a vision, l saw the world burn And the seas had turned red The sun had fallen, the final curtain In the land of the dead Mother, please show the children Before it's too late To fight each other, there's no one winning We must fight all the hate
And they don't really know even what they're talkin' about And I can't image what empty heads can achieve Leave me alone, don't want your promises no more 'Cos rock & roll is my religion and my law Won't ever change, may think it's strange You can't kill rock & roll, it's here to stay
You've got to believe in yourself Or no one will believe in you Imagination like a bird on the wing Flying free for you to use
Howling in the shadows, living in a lunar spell, he finds his heaven, spewing from the mouth of hell.
I'm just a Rock and Roll Rebel, I tell you no lies, they say I worship the devil, they must be stupid or blind
They live a life of fear and insecurity And all you do is pay for their prosperity The ministry of fear that won't let you live The ministry of grace that doesn't forgive Do what you will to try and make me conform I'll make you wish that you had never been born
If we're offensive and pose a threat You fear what we represent is a mess You've missed the message that says it all And you'll never know why Oh no, you'll never know why We rock
Taught by the powers that preach over me I can hear their empty reasons I wouldn't listen, I learned how to fight I opened up my mind to treason But just like the wounded, and when it's too late They'll remember, they'll surrender Never a care for the people who hate Underestimate me now
A Devil with a crucifix Brimstone and fire He needs another carnal fix To take him higher and higher Now Jimmy, he got busted With his pants down Repent ye wretched sinner Self righteous clown
Tell me I'm a sinner I got news for you I spoke to God this morning and he don't like you You telling all the people the original sin He says he knows you better that you'll ever know him
I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired.
There Are No Unachievable Goals There Are No Unsaveable Souls No Legitimate Kings Or Queens, Do You Know What I Mean?
I'm not the kind of person you think I am, I'm not the anti-Christ, or the iron man.
If only we could all just find serenity It would be nice if we could live as one When will all this anger, hate and bigotry... Be gone?
I'm like a junky without an addiction.
Too many religions for only one god I don't need another saviour Don't try to change my mind You know I'm one of a kind Ain't gonna change my bad behaviour
I can't believe I'm still here, I know I should be dead.
It's a new day For the faceless, Take the torches From the useless, First amendment, Second guesses, All dependent, I'll do anything to help you<p>Fallen crosses, New alliance, Deeper thinkers, Modern science, Open guest list, All inclusive, No one loses, Everything you've always wanted
Dreams that men can be good, Faith to live as we should and know we're all connected, We give ourselves the power
We all must stand together now A one by one we fall For all these years you stood by me God bless I love you all
I just can't wake from these scary dreams.
*http://www.ozzy.com Official Website
*http://www.lyricspedia.com/ozzy-osbourne-lyrics/ Ozzy Osbourne Lyrics
