WITH GREAT POWER THERE MUST ALSO COME--GREAT RESPONSIBILITY!
Excelsior!
'Nuff Said!
Face front, true believer!
In the early days, I was writing scripts for virtually all the books, and it was very hard to keep all the artists busy; poor little frail me, doing story after story. So I'd be writing a story for Kirby, and Steve Ditko would walk in and say, 'Hey, I need some work now.' And I'd say, 'I can't give it to you now, Steve, I'm finishing Kirby's.' But we couldn't afford to keep Steve waiting, because time is money, so I'd have to say, 'Look Steve, I can't write a script for you now, but here's the plot for the next Spider-Man. Go home and draw anything you want, as long as it's something like this, and I'll put the copy in later.' So I was able to finish Jack's story. Steve in the meantime was drawing another story.....Okay, it started out as a lazy's man's device...but we realized this was absolutely the best way to do a comic.....Don't have the writer say, 'Panel one will be a long shot of Spider-Man walking down the street.' The artist may see it differently; maybe he feels it should be a shot of Spider-Man swinging on his web, or climbing upside-down on the ceiling or something.
They are working on ''The Fantastic Four'', ''The Silver Surfer'', ''Iron Man'', ''Dr. Strange'', ''The Hulk''— they're doing a sequel to ''Spider-Man'', a sequel to ''X-Men'', and probably a third sequel to ''Blade''. They still haven't gotten around to ''Nick Fury, Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.''— they have to do the ''Ghost Rider''.
What did Doctor Doom really want? He wanted to rule the world. Now, think about this. You could walk across the street against a traffic light and get a summons for jaywalking, but you could walk up to a police officer and say "I want to rule the world," and there's nothing he can do about it, that is not a crime. Anybody can want to rule the world. So, even though he was the Fantastic Four's greatest menace, in my mind, he was never a criminal!
"We tried to make our characters as human and empathetic as possible. Instead of merely emphasizing their super feats, we attempted to make their personal life and personal problems as realistic and as interesting as possible. We wanted to make them seem like real people whom the reader would like to spend time with and want to know better.
http://www.stanleeweb.com/ Stan Lee Web – Everything Stan Lee! - Articles, Credits, Media, and More!
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0498278/ Stan Lee at IMDb
http://www.samruby.com/AmazingFantasy/amazing_fantasy_15.htm Amazing Fantasy #15
http://www.spiderfan.org/help/faq/spiderman.html Spider-man FAQ
http://www.toonopedia.com/spidey.htm Spider-Man at Toonopedia
