I don't know what my fans are going to think. It's definitely not what they're used to from me.
I think that the online world has actually brought books back. People are reading because they're reading the damn screen. That's more reading than people used to do.
I think ''The Razor's Edge'' is a pretty good movie. But at the time, it was just as reviled as any other comedian doing a serious thing now. Like ''The Majestic'' with Jim Carrey, movies where comedians go straight, people don't like them.  It angers people, like you're taking something away from them. That's the response I got. I thought, "Well, aren't we all bigger than that?" I wasn't shocked by it, but I thought that the professional critics would be able to say, "OK, we shouldn't rule this out, because the guy normally does other stuff."  Unless it's really despicable, then you have to just jump with both feet on the neck.
I think romance basically starts with respect. And new romance always starts with respect. I think I have some romantic friendships. Like the song “Love the One You’re With”; there is something to that. It’s not just make love to whomever you’re with, it’s just love whomever you’re with. And love can be seeing that here we are and there’s this world here. If I go to my room and I watch TV, I didn’t really live. If I stay in my hotel room and watch TV, I didn’t live today.
Melancholic and lovable is the trick, right? You've got to be able to show that you have these feelings. In the game of life, you get these feelings and how you deal with those feelings. What you do when you are trying to deal with a melancholy. A melancholy can be sweet. It's not a mean thing, but it's something that happens in life — like autumn.
I always like to say to people who want to be rich and famous, try being rich first. See if that doesn't cover most of it.
This isn't the old Mister Sunshine.
When Piedmont died, I had to pay him back for my life. I found out there's another debt to pay — for the privilege of being alive. I thought Sophie was my reward for trying to live a good life. Uh uh. There is no payoff — not now.
*{{imdb name|id=0000195|name=Bill Murray}}
