We don't have education, we have inspiration; if I was educated I would be a damn fool.
Today, people struggle to find what's real. Everything has become so synthetic that a lot of people, all they want is to grasp onto hope.
The more you accept herb, the more you accept rastafari.
"Possession make you rich? I don't have that type of richness. My richness is life, forever."
All dese governments and dis this and that, these people that say they're here to help, why them say you cannot smoke the herb? Herb... herb is a plant, you know? And when me check it, me can't find no reason. All them say is, 'it make you rebel'. Against what?
Alcohol make you drunk, man. It don't make you meditate, it just make you drunk. Herb is more a consciousness.
Who are you to judge the life I live? I am not perfect and I don't have to be! before you start pointing fingers, make sure your hands are clean
Every man gotta right to decide his own destiny.
Some people say great God come from the sky take away everything and make everybody feel high, but if you know what life is worth, you will look for yours on earth.
One love, one heart,  Let's get together and feel alright.
Every day the bucket a-go a well, one day the bottom a-go drop out.
A hungry mob is an angry mob.
Truth is the light So you never give up the fight.
Don't worry about a thing,  'Cos every little thing is gonna be alright.
Your life is worth much more than gold.
Excuse me while I light my spliff, good God I gotta take a lift.
Life is one big road with lots of signs.  So when you riding through the ruts, don't complicate your mind.  Flee from hate, mischief and jealousy.  Don't bury your thoughts, put your vision to reality.
Emancipate yourself from mental slavery, none but ourselves can free our mind. Have no fear for atomic energy, 'cause none of them can stop the time.
We JAH people can make it work.
Don't gain the world and lose your soul  Wisdom is better than silver and gold.
They say: only the fittest of the fittest shall survive, stay alive!
In the abundance of water a fool is thirsty.
When one door is closed, many more is open.
It is better to live on the house top  than to live in a house full of confusion.
Judge not, before you judge yourself.  Judge not, if you're not ready for judgment.
*Road of life is rocky and you may stumble too,  so while you talk about me, someone else is judging you.
*I know that I'm not perfect and that I don't claim to be,  so before you point your fingers make sure your hands are clean.
Say you just can't live that negative way  You know what I mean  Make way for the positive day  Cause it's a new day.
Good friends we have had, oh good friends we've lost along the way In this bright future you can't forget your past So dry your tears I say No woman, no cry No woman, no cry Little darlin' don't shed no tears No woman, no cry
Ev'rything's gonna be alright  So, no woman, no cry.
*I am Boutros Boutros-Ghali; put down your guns and listen to Bob Marley.
http://www.bobmarley.com/ Official Bob Marley website
{{imdb name|0002490|Bob Marley}}
