When I behold this I sighed, and said within myself, "Surely mortal man is a broomstick!" Nature sent him into the world strong and lusty, in a thriving condition, wearing his own hair on his head, the proper branches of this reasoning vegetable, till the axe of intemperance has lopped off his green boughs, and left him a withered trunk; he then flies to art, and puts on a periwig, valuing himself upon an unnatural bundle of hairs, all covered with powder, that never grew on his head; but now should this our broomstick pretend to enter the scene, proud of those birchen spoils it never bore, and all covered with dust, through the sweepings of the finest lady's chamber, we should be apt to ridicule and despise its vanity. Partial judges that we are of our own excellencies, and other men's defaults!
Satire is a sort of glass, wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own.
Instead of dirt and poison we have rather chosen to fill our hives with honey and wax; thus furnishing mankind with the two noblest of things, which are sweetness and light.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through.
There is nothing in this world constant, but inconstancy.
There are few, very few, that will own themselves in a mistake, though all the World sees them to be in downright nonsense.
And surely one of the best rules in conversation is, never to say a thing which any of the company can reasonably wish had been left unsaid… 
'Tis very warm weather when one's in bed.
We are so fond of one another, because our ailments are the same.
I love good creditable acquaintance; I love to be the worst of the company.
…one enemy can do more hurt, than ten friends can do good.
But nothing is so hard for those who abound in riches, as to conceive how others can be in want.
'Tis an old maxim in the schools, That flattery's the food of fools; Yet now and then your men of wit Will condescend to take a bit.
Proper words in proper places, make the true definition of a style.
Reasoning will never make a man correct an ill opinion, which by reasoning he never acquired...
If Heaven had looked upon riches to be a valuable thing, it would not have given them to such a scoundrel.
So weak thou art, that fools thy power despise; And yet so strong, thou triumph'st o'er the wise.
For, in reason, all government without the consent of the governed is the very definition of slavery: but in fact, eleven men well armed will certainly subdue one single man in his shirt.
''Libertas et natale solum'': Fine words! I wonder where you stole 'em.
A set of phrases learnt by rote; A passion for a scarlet coat; When at a play to laugh, or cry, Yet cannot tell the reason why: Never to hold her tongue a minute; While all she prates has nothing in it.
For conversation well endued; She calls it witty to be rude; And, placing raillery in railing, Will tell aloud your greatest failing.
Those dreams that on the silent night intrude, And with false flitting shapes our minds delude … are mere productions of the brain. And fools consult interpreters in vain.
This evil fortune, which generally attends extraordinary men in the management of great affairs, has been imputed to divers causes, that need not be here set down, when so obvious a one occurs, if what a certain writer observes be true, that when a great genius appears in the world the dunces are all in confederacy against him.
Not die here in a rage, like a poisoned rat in a hole.
I have been assured by a very knowing American of my acquaintance in London, that a young healthy child well nursed is at a year old a most delicious, nourishing, and wholesome food, whether stewed, roasted, baked, or boiled; and I make no doubt that it will equally serve in a fricassee or a ragout.
A child will make two dishes at an entertainment for friends; and when the family dines alone, the fore or hind quarter will make a reasonable dish, and seasoned with a little pepper or salt will be very good boiled on the fourth day, especially in winter.
Yet malice never was his aim; He lashed the vice but spared the name. No individual could resent, Where thousands equally were meant. His satire points at no defect But what all mortals may correct; For he abhorred that senseless tribe Who call it humor when they gibe.
Then gave him some familiar Thumps, A College Joke to cure the Dumps.
Conversation is but carving! Give no more to every guest Than he's able to digest. Give him always of the prime, And but little at a time. Carve to all but just enough, Let them neither starve nor stuff, And that you may have your due, Let your neighbor carve for you.
Under an oak, in stormy weather, I joined this rogue and whore together; And none but he who rules the thunder Can put this rogue and whore asunder.
Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse. Whoever makes the fewest persons uneasy is the best bred in the company.
Pedantry is properly the over-rating of any kind of knowledge we pretend to.
Pride, ill nature, and want of sense, are the three great sources of ill manners.
I can discover no political evil in suffering bullies, sharpers, and rakes, to rid the world of each other by a method of their own; where the law hath not been able to find an expedient.
Nothing is so great an instance of ill manners as flattery. If you flatter all the company, you please none; if you flatter only one or two, you affront the rest.
It is impossible that any thing so natural, so necessary, and so universal as death, should ever have been designed by Providence as an evil to mankind.
I shall be like that tree; I shall die from the top.
Reason is a very light rider and easily shook off.
''Ubi saeva indignatio ulterius cor lacerare nequit''
Hail fellow, well met.
I 've often wish'd that I had clear, For life, six hundred pounds a year; A handsome house to lodge a friend; A river at my garden's end; A terrace walk, and half a rood Of land set out to plant a wood.
How we apples swim!
It is a maxim, that those to whom everybody allows the second place have an undoubted title to the first.
Seamen have a custom, when they meet a whale, to fling him out an empty tub by way of amusement, to divert him from laying violent hands upon the ship.
There are certain common privileges of a writer, the benefit whereof, I hope, there will be no reason to doubt; particularly, that where I am not understood, it shall be concluded, that something very useful and profound is couched underneath; and again, that whatever word or sentence is printed in a different character, shall be judged to contain something extraordinary either or wit of sublime.
Bread is the staff of life.
I have one word to say upon the subject of profound writers, who are grown very numerous of late; and I know very well the judicious world is resolved to list me in that number. I conceive therefore, as to the business of being profound, that it is with writers as with wells - a person with good eyes may see to the bottom of the deepest, provided any water be there: and often when there is nothing in the world at the bottom besides dryness and dirt, though it be but a yard and a-half under-ground, it shall pass, however, for wondrous deep upon no wiser reason than because it is wondrous dark
Books, the children of the brain.
As boys do sparrows, with flinging salt upon their tails.
He made it a part of his religion never to say grace to his meat.
We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another.
Every man desires to live long, but no man would be old.
A nice man is a man of nasty ideas.
Vision is the art of seeing things invisible.
What they do in heaven we are ignorant of; what they do not we are told expressly: that they neither marry, nor are given in marriage.
The Stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires, is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes.
The power of fortune is confessed only by the miserable; for the happy impute all their success to prudence or merit.
The latter part of a wise man’s life is taken up in curing the follies, prejudices, and false opinions he had contracted in the former.
Positiveness is a good quality for preachers and orators, because he that would obtrude his thoughts and reasons upon a multitude, will convince others the more, as he appears convinced himself.
Politics, as the word is commonly understood, are nothing but corruptions, and consequently of no use to a good king or a good ministry; for which reason Courts are so overrun with politics.
Men are contented to be laughed at for their wit, but not for their folly.
Although men are accused of not knowing their own weakness, yet perhaps as few know their own strength. It is in men as in soils, where sometimes there is a vein of gold, which the owner knows not of.
Ambition often puts men upon doing the meanest offices; so climbing is performed in the same posture with creeping.
The reason why so few marriages are happy is because young ladies spend their time in making nets, not in making cages.
Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent.
Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age…
I never wonder to see men wicked, but I often wonder to see them not ashamed.
No wise man ever wished to be younger.
The Bulk of mankind is as well equipped for flying as thinking.
Complaint is the largest tribute heaven receives, and the sincerest part of our devotion.
When a true genius appears in the world you may know him by this sign; that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.
The two maxims of any great man at court are always to keep his countenance and never to keep his word.http://books.google.com/books?id=eRwwAAAAMAAJ&q=&quot;The+two+maxims+of+any+great+man+at+court+are+always+to+keep+his+countenance+and+never+to+keep+his+word&quot;&pg=PA262#v=onepage
He is taller by almost the breadth of my nail, than any of his court, which alone is enough to strike an awe into the beholders.
Big-endians and small-endians.
It is allowed on all hands, that the primitive way of breaking eggs, before we eat them, was upon the larger end; but his present majesty’s grandfather, while he was a boy, going to eat an egg, and breaking it according to the ancient practice, happened to cut one of his fingers. Whereupon the emperor his father published an edict, commanding all his subjects, upon great penalties, to break the smaller end of their eggs. The people so highly resented this law, that our histories tell us, there have been six rebellions raised on that account; wherein one emperor lost his life, and another his crown.
I cannot but conclude the bulk of your natives to be the most pernicious race of little odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth.
And he gave it for his opinion, that whosoever could make two ears of corn or two blades of grass to grow upon a spot of ground where only one grew before, would deserve better of mankind, and do more essential service to his country, than the whole race of politicians put together.
He had been eight years upon a project for extracting sunbeams out of cucumbers, which were to be put in vials hermetically sealed, and let out to warm the air in raw inclement summers.
I said the thing which was not. (For they have no word in their language to express lying or falsehood.)
Poor Nations are hungry, and rich Nations are proud, and Pride and Hunger will ever be at Variance.
A soldier is a Yahoo (man) hired to kill in cold blood as many of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he can.
I told him...that we ate when we were not hungry, and drank without the provocation of thirst.
As learned commentators view In Homer more than Homer knew.
So geographers, in Afric maps, With savage pictures fill their gaps, And o'er unhabitable downs Place elephants for want of towns.
Where Young must torture his invention To flatter knaves, or lose his pension.
Hobbes clearly proves that every creature Lives in a state of war by nature.
So, naturalists observe, a flea Hath smaller fleas that on him prey; And these have smaller still to bit 'em; And so proceed ''ad infinitum''. Thus every poet, in his kind, Is bit by him that comes behind.
A penny for your thoughts.
Do you think I was born in a wood to be afraid of an owl?
The sight of you is good for sore eyes.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
I hate nobody: I am in charity with the world.
I won't quarrel with my bread and butter.
She's no chicken; she's on the wrong side of thirty, if she be a day.
She looks as if butter wou'dn't melt in her mouth.
If it had been a bear it would have bit you.
She wears her clothes, as if they were thrown on her with a pitchfork.
Promises and pie-crust are made to be broken.
I mean you lie—under a mistake.
Lord M. What religion is he of? Lord Sp. Why, he is an Anythingarian.
He was a bold man that first ate an oyster.
That's as well said, as if I had said it myself.
You must take the will for the deed.
Fingers were made before forks, and hands before knives.
She has more goodness in her little finger, than he has in his whole body.
Lord, I wonder what fool it was that first invented kissing!
They say a carpenter 's known by his chips.
The best doctors in the world are Doctor Diet, Doctor Quiet, and Doctor Merryman.
I'll give you leave to call me anything, if you don't call me "spade".
May you live all the days of your life.
I have fed like a farmer: I shall grow as fat as a porpoise.
I always love to begin a journey on Sundays, because I shall have the prayers of the church to preserve all that travel by land, or water.
I know Sir John will go, though he was sure it would rain cats and dogs.
I thought you and he were hand-in-glove.
Better belly burst than good liquor be lost.
'T is happy for him that his father was before him.
There is none so blind as they that won't see.
She watches him as a cat would watch a mouse.
She pays him in his own coin.
There was all the world and his wife.
Sharp's the word with her.
There's two words to that bargain.
*You beat your pate, and fancy wit will come; Knock as you please, there's nobody at home.
*I know nothing of music; I would not give a farthing for all the music in the universe.
It is useless to attempt to reason a man out of a thing he was never reasoned into.
There is, indeed, no wild beast more to be dreaded than a communicative man having nothing to communicate.
As love without esteem is volatile and capricious; esteem without love is languid and cold.
A man should never be ashamed to own he has been in the wrong, which is but saying in other words, that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.
Swift has a higher reputation than he deserves. His excellence is strong sense; for his humour, though very well, is not remarkably good. I doubt whether The Tale of a Tub be his; for he never owned it, and it is much above his worldly manner.
The rogue never hazards a figure.
... giant and great as this Dean is, I say we should hoot him. Some of this audience mayn't have read the last part of Gulliver, and to such I would recall the advice of the venerable Mr. Punch to persons about to marry, and say, 'Don't'. When Gulliver first lands among the Yahoos, the naked howling wretches clamber up trees and assault him, and he describes himself as 'almost stifled with the filth which fell about him.' The reader of the fourth part of ''Gulliver's Travels'' is like the hero himself in this instance. It is Yahoo language: a monster gibbering shrieks, and gnashing imprecations against mankind -- tearing down all shreds of modesty, past all sense of manliness and shame; filthy in word, filthy in thought, furious, raging, obscene.
As fierce a beak and talon as ever struck -- as strong a wing as ever beat, belong to Swift. ... One can gaze, and not without awe and pity, at the lonely eagle chained behind the bars ... An immense genius: an awful downfall and ruin. So great a man he seems to me, that thinking of him is like thinking of an empire falling.
http://www.luminarium.org/eightlit/swift/ Jonathan Swift: Biography, Works, Articles and Quotes at Luminarium
{{gutenberg author| id=Jonathan+Swift | name=Jonathan Swift}}
http://www.victorianweb.org/previctorian/swift/swiftov.html Jonathan Swift: An Overview
