My week beats your year.
Fuck ''Radio Ethiopia'' man, I'm Radio Brooklyn!
LR: "Are you political, Lou? Audience: "Yeah, are you?" LR:"Political about what? You give me an issue, I'll give you a tissue and you can wipe my ass with it."
Nothing beats 2 guitars, drum and bass.
Anyone that gets to side four is dumber than I am.
He's probably the single most untalented person I've heard in my life. He's a two-bit pretentious academic, and he can't play rock'n'roll, because he's a loser. And that's why he dresses up funny. He's not happy with himself, and I think he's right.
Of course. All the best people are.
*It always bothers me to see people writing 'RIP' when a person dies. It just feels so insincere and like a cop-out. To me, 'RIP' is the microwave dinner of posthumous honors.
The news I feared the most, pales in comparison to the lump in my throat and the hollow in my stomach. Two kids have a chance meeting and 47 years later we fight and love the same way – losing either one is incomprehensible. No replacement value, no digital or virtual fill . . . broken now, for all time. Unlike so many with similar stories – we have the best of our fury laid out on vinyl, for the world to catch a glimpse. The laughs we shared just a few weeks ago, will forever remind me of all that was good between us. — John Cale about Reed's death http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/john-cale-mourns-lou-reed-20131028
Some people like to go out dancing Other people they have to work There's even some evil mothers They'll tell you that everything is just dirt That women never really faint Or that villians always blink their eyes Or that children are the only ones who blush And that life is just to die But anyone who ever had a heart They wouldn't turn around and break it And anyone who ever played a part They wouldn't turn around and hate it
*Just watch me now.
And I feel just like Jesus' son
Life's like a mayonnaise soda And life's like space without room And life's like bacon and ice cream That's what life's like without you
Candy came from out on the Island In the backroom she was everybody's darlin' But she never lost her head Even when she was giving head She says, Hey babe Take a walk on the wild side
Candy says I've come to hate my body And all that it requires In this world . . . What do you think I'd see If I could walk away from me 
I'll be your mirror Reflect what you are In case you don't know
When she turned blue, all the angels screamed.
The Rally Man's patter ran on through the dawn Until we said so long to his skull  Shrill yell.
"Just watch," said Sheila, touching her finger to her head.
You made me forget myself; I thought I was someone else, someone good.
I watched it for a little while, I like to watch things on TV
An eye for an eye is elemental.
There are problems in these times, but none of them are mine <br /> I'm beginning to see the light
First thing you learn <br /> is that you've <br /> always got to wait
Jesse you say Common Ground Does that include the PLO?
And Pontiff, pretty Pontiff Can anyone shake your hand? Or is it just that you like uniforms and someone kissing your hand
