I'm a grounded person. I don't need security when I'm home as they know who I am. I live with my mum and tour with my dad... I'm just a regular 16-year-old kid. I make good grilled cheese and I like girls.
''to all the haters out there i wish u the best. U cant bring me down. I wake up everyday grateful 4 the opportunity and grateful to the fans''
I don't like girls who wear lots of make-up and you can't see their face. Some girls are beautiful but insecure and look much better without the make-up, but decide to put loads on. I like girls with nice eyes and a nice smile.
I want my world to be fun. No parents, no rules, no nothing. Like, no one can stop me. No one can stop me.
Anything above 40 is a little too old for me. I just look for a girl who is funny and has nice eyes and a smile.
I try to read all of my fan mail. A lot of them send me candy, which I'm not allowed to eat 'cause my mom says it might be poisonous.
I don't really have an allowance. When I want to get something I just have to ask my mom.
I usually have to be home by 10 o'clock and my mom takes my computer away at 10.30pm every night.
Yeah, I’m a great kisser.
I have dumped a girl over the phone - it's terrible isn't it? We got into an argument during a phone call so I basically said, I don't wanna be with you any more,' and she cried... I saw her after that and it was a bit awkward, but we're not enemies now, so that's cool…But I wouldn't recommend it, it's very mean!
My favorite thing is being able to travel around the world and perform for my fans. I think I’ve lost 80 percent of my hearing. I definitely have very loud fans.
Without the Internet I would have no fans and I wouldn’t be in this business. I owe everything to the Internet and my fans.
The girls show up wearing nothing. I can’t lie, I’m 16, I don’t hate it. I don’t have a girlfriend.
My mom is my biggest fan. She’s been a fan since I was a baby.
I think the obsession with my hair is funny. People copy my hair. At meet and greets, people touch my hair. I don’t have any product in it.
I mean, girlfriends are trouble at this age.
My first date has been sort of mythologized as ‘Bieber’s Dating Disaster.’ I took her to King’s a buffet restaurant. Yes, I wore a white shirt. Yes, I got spaghetti. No, this was not the brightest idea. But it wasn’t a big trauma, though.
If I can do just one-tenth of the good Michael Jackson did for others, I can really make a difference in this world.
On my Youtube page there are so many haters. They just say crazy stuff. Like, I'm not mad. I'm 16 years old and I don't have chest hair and I'm not angry about it at the moment. That will come. People are like, "Look at him he puts helium in his voice before he sings." You just have to laugh at yourself. It's funny.
I don't think you should have sex with anyone unless you love them... I think you should just wait for the person you're...in love with.
<small>when asked about abortion in cases of rape</small> Um. Well, I think that's really sad, but everything happens for a reason. I don't know how that would be a reason. I guess I haven't been in that position, so I wouldn't be able to judge that.
I don't want to start singing about things like sex, drugs and swearing. I'm into love, and maybe I'll get more into making love when I'm older. But I want to be someone who is respected by everybody.
When I was coming up, trying to get to where I am now, people were so happy for me. They were rooting for me. Now that I'm on top, everyone wants to bring me down. Everyone's trying to tug at me and take my spot... A lot of people say they hate Justin Bieber who haven't even listened to my music. They just hate the idea of me.
''there is time to play...and then there are times to work hard and get my fans an album.''
I feel like I carry myself in a more manly way. I don’t carry myself as a boy.
''i see all of u. i hear all of u. i never want to let any of you down. i love u. and..thank u.''
If you really don’t enjoy the type of music I make and that’s not you, OK. But don’t say I’m not talented. If you haven’t noticed, I wasn’t made — I was found.
I also heard he got busted for smoking weed and he’s really sorry about it and people make mistakes and he’s never gonna do it again.
I'll fucking beat the fuck out of you.
After the new album, I'm actually retiring man. I'm retiring.
I want to grow as an artist and I'm taking a step out, I want my music to mature.
My beloved beliebers I'm officially retiring
I was discovered on YouTube and I think I was detrimental to my own career.
And girl you're my one love, my one heart My one life for sure Let me tell you one time (Girl, I love, girl I love you) I'ma tell you one time
You know you love me I know you care Just shout whenever, And I'll be there You want my love You want my heart And we will never, ever, ever be apart
And I was like Baby, baby, baby ooh...
Justin is a really great little guy... But that's his problem - he's a little guy... His fans are growing up, they're 18, 19-year-olds now... they're young women. And he still looks like that little boy!... He needs some hair, or something - I just don't think, from my gut - maybe my gut's wrong because it's not 100% - but I don't think he's going to stand the test of time... But you know what, I don't feel sorry for him, because he's made oodles and he's a fabulously nice person and he'll go on to do something else.
Who the fuck is Justin Bieber?
He's a great guy. He's doing great out there right now.
Look, when you realize how fake it all is; the football, the basketball, the Magellan; I mean, kids, Magellan is lot COOLER than Justin Bieber! He circumnavigated with one ship the entire planet! He was killed by wild natives before they got back to Portugal! And when they got back there was only like eleven people alive of the two hundred and something crew and the entire ship was rotting down to the waterline! That's destiny! That's will! That's striving! That's being a trailblazer! An explorer! Going into space! Mathematics! Quantum mechanics! The secrets of the universe! It's all there! Life is fiery with its beauty! Its incredible detail! Tuning into it! They wanna shatter your mind, TALKING ABOUT JUSTIN BIEBER!!! IT'S PURE EVIL!!! They're taking your intellect, your soul, and giving you Michael Jordan and Bieber. Unlock your human potential! Defeat the globalists who wanna shatter your mind!—Your doorways to perception!—I wanna see you truly live! I wanna see you truly be who you are!!!
{{Official website|http://www.justinbiebermusic.com/default.aspx}}
http://www.youtube.com/justinbieber Justin Bieber at YouTube
http://www.twitter.com/justinbieber Justin Bieber at Twitter
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm3595501/ Profile at IMDb
