She's lovely, great. She was very friendly. She was just like a mum to us.
*Some fella said to me, "Have you had LSD, Paul?" And I said "Yes." And it was only 'cuz I was going to just be honest with him. There's no other reason. I didn't want to spread it or anything, you know. I'm not trying to do anything except answer his question. But he happened to be a reporter, and I happened to be a Beatle.
Personally, I think you can put any interpretation you want on anything, but when someone suggests that Can't Buy Me Love is about a prostitute, I draw the line. That's going too far.
We probably seem to be anti-religious...none of us believes in God.
I wasn't really dead.
We thought we'd be really big in Liverpool.
Criticism didn't really stop us and it shouldn't ever stop anyone, because critics are only the people who can't get a record deal themselves.
We're constantly being asked all sorts of very profound questions. But we're not very profound people. People say, 'What do you think of the H-bomb, of religion, of fan worship?' But we didn't really start thinking about these things until people asked us. And even then we didn't get much time to consider them. What do I think of the H-bomb? Well, here's an answer with the full weight of five O levels and one A level behind it: I don't agree with it.
*I don't have any desire to learn. I feel it's like a voodoo, that it would spoil things if I actually learnt how things are done.
While the others had got married and moved out to suburbia, I had stayed in London and got into the arts scene through friends like Robert Fraser and Barry Miles and papers like ''The International Times''. We opened the Indica gallery with John Dunbar, Peter Asher and people like that. I heard about people like John Cage, and that he’d just performed a piece of music called ''4’33”'' (which is completely silent) during which if someone in the audience coughed he would say, ‘See?’ Or someone would boo and he’d say, ‘See? It’s not silence—it’s music.’ I was intrigued by all of that. So these things started to be part of my life. I was listening to Stockhausen; one piece was all little plink-plonks and interesting ideas. Perhaps our audience wouldn’t mind a bit of change, we thought, and anyway, tough if they do! We only ever followed our own noses—most of the time, anyway. ‘Tomorrow Never Knows’ was one example of developing an idea.
With life and all I've been through, I do have a belief in goodness, a good spirit. I think what people have done with religion is personified good and evil, so good's become God with 'o' out, and evil's become Devil with a 'd' added. That's my theory of religion.
What a fucking great band we were.
I tend not to say much on the phone now. If I leave a message, it's benign. You edit yourself according to the new circumstances of the new world. I think it would be quite good to get some sort of laws.
I'd like to be able to go on holiday and not to have to hold my belly in for two whole weeks.
Yesterday, all my troubles seemed so far away  Now it looks as though they're here to stay.  Oh, I believe in yesterday.
Why she had to go I don't know, she wouldn't say  I said something wrong, now I long for yesterday.
Yesterday, love was such an easy game to play  Now I need a place to hide away.  Oh, I believe in yesterday.
To lead a better life, I need my love to be here. Here, making each day of the year, Changing my life with a wave of her hand. Nobody can deny that there's something there.
I want her everywhere and if she's beside me I know I need never care. But to love her is to need her Everywhere, knowing that love is to share each one believing that love never dies watching her eyes and hoping I'm always there.
Lovely Rita, Meter Maid, nothing could come between us.  When it gets dark I'll tow your heart away
Will you still need me,  will you still feed me, when I'm sixty-four?
Hey Jude, don't make it bad  Take a sad song and make it better.  Remember to let her into your heart  Then you can start to make it better.
Obladi oblada life goes on bra  Lala how the life goes on
And in the end, the love you take is equal to the love you make.
The long and winding road that leads to your door Will never disappear,  I've seen that road before it always leads me here,  Leads me to your door.
I thought the only lonely place was on the moon.
You'd think that people would have had enough of silly love songs  I look around me and I see it isn't so  Some people want to fill the world with silly love songs  And what's wrong with that?  I'd like to know  'Cause here I go again...  I love you.
http://www.getartist.com/Paul-Mccartney/ Paul McCartney Albums
http://www.paulmccartney.com/ Official site
http://www.lipa.ac.uk The Liverpool Institute for Performing Arts Paul's Old School
http://www.liverpoolmuseums.org.uk/walker/exhibitions/mccartney/home.asp The Art of Paul McCartney - Exhibition 2002
http://www.mplcommunications.com/mccartney/paul_discography.htm Official UK/US Discography
