Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room!
''on the phone with the Russian Premier'' Hello? Uh, hello? Hello, Dmitri? Listen, I can't hear too well, do you suppose you could turn the music down just a little? A-ha, that's much better. Yeah, yes. Fine, I can hear you now, Dmitri. Clear and plain and coming through fine. I'm coming through fine too, eh? Good, then. Well then, as you say, we're both coming through fine. Good. Well, it's good that you're fine, and - and I'm fine. I agree with you. It's great to be fine. ''Laughs'' Now then, Dmitri, you know how we've always talked about the possibility of something going wrong with the bomb. The ''BOMB'', Dmitri. The ''hydrogen'' bomb. Well now, what happened is, uh, one of our base commanders, he had a sort of - Well, he went a little ''funny'' in the head. You know. Just a little funny. And uh, he went and did a silly thing.<p>Well, I'll tell you what he did. He ordered his planes...to attack your country.<p>Well, let me ''finish'', Dmitri. Let me finish, Dmitri. Well, listen, how do you think I feel about it? Can you imagine how I feel about it, Dmitri? Why do you think I'm calling you? Just to say hello?<p>''Of course'' I like to speak to you! ''Of course'' I like to say hello! Not now, but any time, Dmitri. I'm just calling up to tell you something terrible has happened.<p>It's a friendly call. Of course, it's a friendly call. Listen, if it wasn't friendly, you probably wouldn't have even got it. They will not reach their targets for at least another hour. I am, I am positive, Dmitri. Listen, I've been all over this with your Ambassador. It is not a trick. Well, I'll tell you. We'd like to give your Air Staff a complete rundown on the targets, the flight plans, and the defensive systems of the planes.<p>Yes, I mean, if-if we're unable to recall the planes, then, I'd say that, uh, well, uh, we're just gonna have to help you destroy them, Dmitri. I know they're our boys. All right, well listen, now, who should we call? Who should we call, Dmitri? The what, the People, you, sorry, you faded away there. The People's Central Air Defense Headquarters. Where is that, Dmitri? In Omsk. Right. Yes. Oh, you'll call them first, will you? Uh, huh. Listen, do you happen to have the phone number on you, Dmitri? What? I see. Just ask for Omsk information.<p>I'm sorry too, Dmitri. I'm very sorry. All right, you're sorrier than I am. But I am sorry as well. I am as sorry as you are, Dmitri. Don't say that you're the more sorry than I am because I am capable of being just as sorry as you are. So we're both sorry, all right? All right.
The whole point of the doomsday machine...is lost if you keep it a secret!
Sir! I have a plan... ''stands from his wheelchair'' Mein Führer, I can WALK!
I can no longer sit back and allow Communist infiltration, Communist indoctrination, Communist subversion, and the international Communist conspiracy to sap and impurify all of our precious bodily fluids.
Mandrake, do you recall what Clemenceau once said? He said "War is too important to be left to the generals." When he said that, fifty years ago, he may have been right. But today war is too important to be left to the politicians. They have neither the time nor inclination for strategic thought.
Do you realize that in addition to fluoridating water, why, there are studies underway to fluoridate salt, flour, fruit juices, soup, sugar, milk, ice cream? Ice cream, Mandrake? Children's ice cream!...You know when fluoridation began?...1946. 1946, Mandrake. How does that coincide with your post-war Commie conspiracy, huh? It's incredibly obvious, isn't it? A foreign substance is introduced into our precious bodily fluids without the knowledge of the individual, and certainly without any choice. That's the way your hard-core Commie works. I first became aware of it, Mandrake, during the physical act of love... Yes, a profound sense of fatigue, a feeling of emptiness followed. Luckily I — I was able to interpret these feelings correctly. Loss of essence. I can assure you it has not recurred, Mandrake. Women, er, women sense my power, and they seek the life essence. I do not avoid women, Mandrake...but I do deny them my essence.
Mandrake, come over here, the Redcoats are coming!
Well, boys, I reckon this is it — nuclear combat toe to toe with the Roosskies. Now look, boys, I ain't much of a hand at makin' speeches, but I got a pretty fair idea that something doggone important is goin' on back there. And I got a fair idea the kinda personal emotions that some of you fellas may be thinkin'. Heck, I reckon you wouldn't even be human bein's if you didn't have some pretty strong personal feelin's about nuclear combat. I want you to remember one thing, the folks back home is a-countin' on you and by golly, we ain't about to let 'em down. I tell you something else, if this thing turns out to be half as important as I figure it just might be, I'd say that you're all in line for some important promotions and personal citations when this thing's over with. That goes for ever' last one of you regardless of your race, color or your creed. Now let's get this thing on the hump — we got some flyin' to do.
Survival kit contents check. In them you'll find: one forty-five caliber automatic; two boxes of ammunition; four days' concentrated emergency rations; one drug issue containing antibiotics, morphine, vitamin pills, pep pills, sleeping pills, tranquilizer pills; one miniature combination Russian phrase book and Bible; one hundred dollars in rubles; one hundred dollars in gold; nine packs of chewing gum; one issue of prophylactics; three lipsticks; three pair of nylon stockings. Shoot, a fella' could have a pretty good weekend in Vegas with all that stuff.
I been to one world's fair, a picnic, and a rodeo and that's the stupidest thing I ever heard! (re Wing attack plan R)
Peter Sellers - Group Captain Lionel Mandrake/President Merkin Muffley/Dr. Strangelove
George C. Scott - Gen. 'Buck' Turgidson
Sterling Hayden - Gen. Jack D. Ripper
Keenan Wynn - Col. 'Bat' Guano
Slim Pickens - Maj. T.J. 'King' Kong
Peter Bull - Russian Ambassador Alexi de Sadesky
James Earl Jones - Lt. Lothar Zogg
Herman Kahn, the inspiration for Dr. Strangelove according to Fred Kaplan http://www.nytimes.com/2004/10/10/movies/10kapl.html?pagewanted=2&_r=0
{{imdb title|id=0057012|title=Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb}}
{{rotten-tomatoes|id=dr_strangelove|title=Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb}}
''Filmsite.org
