You know the day destroys the night, Night divides the day, Tried to run —  Tried to hide —  ''Break on through to the other side!'' 
We chased our pleasures here, Dug our treasures there, But can you still recall The time we cried?  ''Break on through to the other side!''
It hurts to set you free, but you’ll never follow me.
People are strange when you're a stranger Faces look ugly when you're alone Women seem wicked when you're unwanted Streets are uneven when you're down.
When you're strange Faces come out of the rain When you're strange No one remembers your name When you're strange.
Five to one, baby  One in five No one here gets out alive, now You get yours, baby I'll get mine Gonna make it, baby If we try.
The old get older And the young get stronger May take a week And it may take longer They got the guns But we got the numbers Gonna win, yeah We're takin' over Come on!
Take an Indian home to lunch.
At first flash of Eden, We race down to the sea.  Standing there on Freedom's shore.  Waiting for the sun...
This is the strangest life I’ve ever known.
Killer on the road His brain is squirming like a toad.
Listen to this, and I'll tell you 'bout the heartache  I'll tell you 'bout the heartache and the loss of God.
I'll tell you this —  No eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn.
Mute nostril agony.
*<b>Don't let me die in an automobile I wanna lie in an open field Want the snakes to suck my skin Want the worms to be my friends Want the birds to eat my eyes As here I lie The clouds fly by</b>
Alright listen man, we got a special treat for you now. This is a little tour-de-force that we've only done a couple times in front of strangers, and it starts off kinda quiet, so if everybody just kinda relax, take a few deep breaths, think about your eventual end and what's gonna happen tonight; and we'll try and do something good to your head, right man? I don't know if you're aware of it, but this whole evening is being taped for eternity and beyond that too. And so listen man, if you want to be represented in eternity with some uncouth language then I hope you'll stand up on the top of your seat and shout it out very clearly or we're not going to get it on tape. Don't worry, the operation won't take long and you'll feel much better in the morning.
I see myself as a huge fiery comet, a shooting star. Everyone stops, points up and gasps "Oh look at that!" Then — whoosh, and I'm gone... and they'll never see anything like it ever again... and they won't be able to forget me — ever.
I think, in these days, especially in the States, you have to be a politician or an assassin or something, to really be a superstar.
People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that’s bullshit. Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they’re afraid to feel? Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they’re wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength in the experience of pain. It’s all in how you carry it. That’s what matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you’re letting society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel your pain.
Yoga powers.  To make oneself invisible or small.  To become gigantic and reach to the farthest things.  To change the course of nature.  To place oneself anywhere in space or time.  To summon the dead.  To exalt senses and perceive inaccessible images, of events on other worlds,  in one's deepest inner mind, or in the minds of others.
(Windows work two ways, mirrors one way.)  You never walk through mirrors or swim through windows.
The world becomes an apparently infinite,  yet possibly finite, card game.  Image combinations,  permutations,  comprise the world game. 
Cinema has evolved in two paths. One is spectacle. Like the phantasmagoria, its goal is the creation of a total substitute sensory world. The other is peep show, which claims for its realm both the erotic and the untampered observance of real life, and imitates the keyhole or voyeur's window without need of color, noise, grandeur.
The subject says "I see first lots of things which dance — then everything becomes gradually connected".
Few would defend a small view of mystical and physical work.
They can picture love affairs of chemicals and stars, a romance of stones, or the fertility of fire. Strange, fertile correspondences the alchemists sensed in unlikely orders of being. Between men and planets, plants and gestures, words and weather.
Cinema returns us to anima, religion of matter, which gives each thing its special divinity and sees gods in all things and beings. Cinema, heir of alchemy, last of an erotic science.
''The Lords.'' Events take place beyond our knowledge or control. Our lives are lived for us. We can only try to enslave others. But gradually, special perceptions are being developed. The idea of the "Lords" is beginning to form in some minds. We should enlist them into bands of perceivers to tour the labyrinth during their mysterious nocturnal appearances. The Lords have secret entrances and they know disguises. But they give themselves away in minor ways. Too much glint of light in the eye. A wrong gesture. Too long and curious a glance.
More or less, we're all afflicted with the psychology of the voyeur. Not in a strictly clinical or criminal sense, but in our whole physical and emotional stance before the world. Whenever we seek to break this spell of passivity, our actions are cruel and awkward and generally obscene, like an invalid who has forgotten to walk.
I can't believe this is happening  I can't believe all these people  are sniffing each other  & backing away  teeth grinning  hair raised, growling, here in  the slaughtered wind
Do you dare  deny my  potency  my kindness  or forgiveness?
Camel caravans bear  witness guns to Caesar.  Hordes crawl and seep inside  the walls. The streets  flow stone. Life goes  on absorbing war. Violence  kills the temple of no sex.
Cool pools  from a tired land  sink now  in the peace of evening  Clouds weaken  and die.  The sun, an orange skull,  whispers quietly, becomes an  island, & is gone. <p> There they are  watching  us everything  will be dark.  The light changed.  We were aware  knee-deep in the fluttering air  as the ships move on  trains in their wake.
This is it  no more fun  the death of all joy  has come.
Indians scattered on dawn's highway bleeding  Ghosts crowd the young child's fragile eggshell mind. <p> Me and my mother and father, and a grandmother and a grandfather. were driving through the desert, at dawn, and a truck load of Indian workers had either hit another car, or just — I don't know what happened — but there were Indians scattered all over the highway, bleeding to death.  So the car pulls up and stops. That was the first time I tasted fear. I musta' been about four — like a child is like a flower, his head is just floating in the breeze, man. The reaction I get now thinking about it, looking back — is that the souls of the ghosts of those dead Indians... maybe one or two of 'em... were just running around freaking out, and just leaped into my soul. And they're still there.
Do you know the warm progress under the stars?  Do you know we exist?  Have you forgotten the keys to the kingdom?  Have you been born yet  & are you alive?
Let's reinvent the gods, all the myths of the ages  Celebrate symbols from deep elder forests
Now listen to this...  Ill tell you about texas radio and the big beat Soft driven, slow and mad Like some new language Reaching your head with the cold, sudden fury of a divine messenger Let me tell you about heartache and the loss of god Wandering, wandering in hopeless night Out here in the perimeter there are no stars... Out here we is stoned... Immaculate.
O great creator of being  grant us one more hour to  perform our art  and perfect our lives <p> The moths & atheists are doubly divine  & dying  We live, we die  and death not ends it
I touched her thigh  and death smiled
We have assembled inside this ancient  & insane theatre  To propagate our lust for life  & flee the swarming wisdom  of the streets
Resident mockery  give us an hour for magic
I'm sick of dour faces  Staring at me from the T.V.  Tower.  I want roses in  my garden bower; dig?
Death makes angels of us all  and gives us wings  where we had shoulders  smooth as raven's  claws 
I will not go  Prefer a  feast of Friends  To the Giant family
The program for this evening  is not new. You have seen  This entertainment through and through.  You've seen your birth, your  life and death; you might recall  all of the rest — (did you  have a good world when you  died?) — enough to base  a movie on?
They're making a joke of our universe
Do you know freedom exists in a school book Did you know madmen are running our prisons Within a jail Within a gaol Within a white free protestant maelstrom We're perched headlong on the edge of boredom We're reaching for death on the end of a candle We're trying for something that's already found us.
Always a playground instructor, never a Killer
*Her cunt gripped him like a warm friendly hand.
Indian, Indian what did you die for? Indian says, nothing at all.
Lying on stained wretched sheets with the bleeding virgin,  we could plan a murder...or start a religion.
You know that it would be untrue You know that I would be a liar If I was to say to you Girl, we couldn't get much higher. Come on baby, light my fire —  Come on baby, light my fire —  Try to set the night on fire.
There are things known and there are things unknown, and in between are the doors of perception.
http://www.thedoors.com/band/ Official Doors site
JIM MORRISON | The Doors Mythos
