There's no black and white, left and right to me anymore; there's only up and down and down is very close to the ground. And I'm trying to go up without thinking about anything trivial such as politics. They has got nothing to do with it. I'm thinking about the general people and when they get hurt.
a poem is a naked person . . . some people say that I am a poet
*Reporter: How many people who labor in the same musical vineyard in which you toil - how many are protest singers? That is, people who use their music, and use the songs to protest the, uh, social state in which we live today: the matter of war, the matter of crime, or whatever it might be. Bob Dylan: Um...how ''many?'' Reporter: Yes. How many? Bob Dylan: Uh, I think there's about, uh...136. Reporter: You say ''about'' 136, or you mean ''exactly'' 136? Bob Dylan: Uh, it's either 136 or 142.
Keep a good head and always carry a light bulb.
God, I'm glad I'm not me.
Chaos is a friend of mine.
I think of a hero as someone who understands the degree of responsibility that comes with his freedom.
The first two lines, which rhymed 'kiddin' you' and 'didn't you,' just about knocked me out, and later on, when I got to the jugglers and the chrome horse and the princess on the steeple, it all just about got to be too much.
People today are still living off the table scraps of the sixties. They are still being passed around — the music and the ideas.
That ear - I mean, Jesus, he's got to will that to the Smithsonian.
Because Dickens and Dostoevsky and Woody Guthrie were telling their stories much better than I ever could, I decided to stick to my own mind.
We may not be able to defeat these swine, but we don't have to join them.
Sometimes you say things in songs even if there's a small chance of them being true. And sometimes you say things that have nothing to do with the truth of what you want to say and sometimes you say things that everyone knows to be true. Then again, at the same time, you're thinking that the only truth on earth is that there is no truth on it. Whatever you are saying, you're saying in a ricky-tick way. There's never time to reflect. You stitched and pressed and packed and drove, is what you did.
The road out would be treacherous, and I didn’t know where it would lead but I followed it anyway. It was a strange world ahead that would unfold, a thunderhead of a world with jagged lightning edges. Many got it wrong and never did get it right. I went straight into it. It was wide open. One thing for sure, not only was it not run by God, but it wasn’t run by the devil either.
I put one on the turntable and when the needle dropped, I was stunned — didn't know whether I was stoned or straight.
Morality has nothing in common with politics.
I had ambitions to set out and find, like an odyssey or going home somewhere… set out to find… this home that I’d left a while back and couldn’t remember exactly where it was, but I was on my way there. And encountering what I encountered on the way was how I envisioned it all. I didn’t really have any ambition at all. I was born very far from where I’m supposed to be, and so, I’m on my way home, you know?
You can't be wise and in love at the same time.
He's a pinboy. He also wears suspenders. He's a real person. You know him, but not by that name... I saw him come into the room one night and he looked like a camel. He proceeded to put his eyes in his pocket. I asked this guy who he was and he said, "That's Mr. Jones." Then I asked this cat, "Doesn't he do anything but put his eyes in his pocket?" And he told me, "He puts his nose on the ground." It's all there, it's a true story.
I don't call myself a poet, because I don't like the word.
I don't believe you! You're a liar! … Play it fucking loud!
I read ''On the Road'' in maybe 1959. It changed my life like it changed everyone else's.
Someone handed me ''Mexico City Blues'' in St. Paul Minnesota in 1959 and it blew my mind. It was the first poetry that spoke my own language.
It’s not a character like in a book or a movie. He’s not a bus driver. He doesn’t drive a forklift. He’s not a serial killer. It’s me who’s singing that, plain and simple. We shouldn’t confuse singers and performers with actors. Actors will say, “My character this, and my character that.” Like beating a dead horse. Who cares about the character? Just get up and act. You don’t have to explain it to me.
It's peculiar and unnerving in a way to see so many young people walking around with cellphones and iPods in their ears and so wrapped up in media and video games. It robs them of their self-identity. It's a shame to see them so tuned out to real life. Of course they are free to do that, as if that's got anything to do with freedom. The cost of liberty is high, and young people should understand that before they start spending their life with all those gadgets.
You sound like a hillbilly; We want folk singers here.
A lot of people don't have much food on their table But they got a lot of forks and knives And they gotta cut something
Hey, hey, Woody Guthrie, I wrote you a song, 'bout a funny ol' world that's a-comin' along
Seems sick an' it's hungry, it's tired an' it's torn, it looks like it's a-dyin' an' it's hardly been born.
Here's to Cisco an' Sonny an' Lead Belly too, an' to all the good people that traveled with you.
here's to the hearts an' the hands of the men, that come with the dust and are gone with the wind.
How many roads must a man walk down before you call him a man? How many seas must a white dove sail before she sleeps in the sand?
Yes, and how many years can a mountain exist before it is washed to the sea?
How many times must a man look up before he can see the sky?
Yes, and how many deaths will it take till he knows that too many people have died?
The answer, my friend, is blowin' in the wind.
So if you're travelin' in the north country fair, Where the winds hit heavy on the borderline, Remember me to one who lives there. She once was a true love of mine.
All the money you made will never buy back your soul.
You ain't worth the blood that runs in your veins.
There is one thing I know though I'm younger than you Even Jesus would not forgive what you do
And I hope that you die And your death'll come soon I will follow your casket In the pale afternoon And I'll watch while you're lowered Down to your deathbed And I'll stand o'er your grave 'Til I'm sure that you're dead
I saw a newborn baby with wild wolves all around it.
I saw ten thousand talkers whose tongues were all broken.
I heard the roar of a wave that could drown the whole world.
I met a white man who walked a black dog.
But I’ll know my song well before I start singin’.
It’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall.
I once loved a woman, a child I am told I gave her my heart but she wanted my soul.
I ain't saying you treated me unkind  You could have done better but I don't mind  You just kinda wasted my precious time  But don't think twice, it's all right.
Goodbye is too good a word, girl  So I'll just say fare thee well.
I got into the driver's seat and drove down 42nd Street in my Cadillac. Good car to drive after a war.
Half of the people can be part right all of the time, Some of the people can be all right part of the time, But all the people can't be all right all the time. I think Abraham Lincoln said that. I'll let you be in my dreams if I can be in yours. I said that.
Come gather ’round people  Wherever you roam  And admit that the waters  Around you have grown.  And accept it that soon  You’ll be drenched to the bone.  If your time to you is worth savin’  Then you better start swimmin’ or you’ll sink like a stone  For the times they are a-changin’.
Come writers and critics  Who prophesize with your pen  And keep your eyes wide  The chance won’t come again  And don’t speak too soon  For the wheel’s still in spin  And there’s no tellin’ who that it’s naming.’  For the loser now will be later to win
Come mothers and fathers Throughout the land  And don’t criticize  What you can’t understand  Your sons and your daughters  Are beyond your command  Your old road is rapidly agin'.
Come Congressmen, Senators, please heed the call Don't stand in the doorway, don't block up the hall  For he who gets hurt will be he who has stalled There’s a battle outside and it's ragin’.
You prayed to the Lord above<br />Oh please send you a friend<br />Your empty pockets tell yuh<br />That you ain’t a-got no friend
There’s seven people dead<br />On a South Dakota farm<br />Somewhere in the distance<br />There's seven new people born
If there's anyone who knows, is there anyone who cares?
You never ask questions When God's on your side
You don't count the dead When God's on your side
But I can’t think for you<br />You’ll have to decide<br />Whether Judas Iscariot<br />Had God on his side
The words fill my head, and fall to the floor, that if God's on our side, he'll stop the next war.
But if the arrow is straight, And the point is slick, It can pierce through dust no matter how thick.
Oh, but if I had the stars from the darkest night <br /> And the diamonds from the deepest ocean <br /> I'd forsake them all for your sweet kiss <br /> For that's all I'm wishin' to be ownin'.
Well, if you, my love, must think that-a-way, <br /> I'm sure your mind is roamin'. <br /> I'm sure your heart is not with me, <br /> But with the country to where you're goin'.
All I really want to do is, baby, be friends with you.
I ain't looking for you to feel like me, see like me, or be like me.
Far between sundown’s finish an’ midnight’s broken toll,<br />We ducked inside the doorway, thunder crashing.<br />As majestic bells of bolts struck shadows in the sounds,<br />Seeming to be the chimes of freedom flashing.<br />Flashing for the warriors whose strength is not to fight,<br />Flashing for the refugees on the unarmed road of flight,<br />An’ for each an’ ev’ry underdog soldier in the night,<br />An’ we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.
Through the mad mystic hammering of the wild ripping hail,<br />The sky cracked its poems in naked wonder,<br />That the clinging of the church bells blew far into the breeze<br />Leaving only bells of lightning and its thunder<br />Striking for the gentle, striking for the kind,<br />Striking for the guardians and protectors of the mind,<br />An’ the poet and the painter far behind his rightful time<br />An’ we gazed upon the chimes of freedom flashing.
Ah, but I was so much older then, I'm younger than that now.
In a soldier's stance, I aimed my hand at the mongrel dogs who teach </br> Fearing not that I'd become my enemy in the instance that I preached </br> My existence led by confusion boats, mutiny from stern to bow.
I had to say something to strike him very weird so I yelled out "I like Fidel Castro and his beard."
All is gone, all is gone, admit it, take flight. <br /> I gagged twice, doubled, tears blinding my sight. <br /> My mind it was mangled, I ran into the night <br /> Leaving all of love's ashes behind me. <br /><p> The wind knocks my window, the room it is wet. <br /> The words to say I'm sorry, I haven't found yet. <br /> I think of her often and hope whoever she's met <br /> Will be fully aware of how precious she is. <br /><p> Ah, my friends from the prison, they ask unto me, <br /> "How good, how good does it feel to be free?" <br /> And I answer them most mysteriously, <br /> "Are birds free from the chains of the skyway?"
Go away from my window, Leave at your own chosen speed, I'm not the one you want, babe, I'm not the one you need. You say you're looking for someone, Who's never weak but always strong, To protect you and defend you, Whether you are right or wrong, Someone to open each and every door, But it ain't me, babe, No, no, no, it ain't me, babe, It ain't me you're looking for, babe.
Johnny's in the basement Mixing up the medicine I'm on the pavement Thinking about the government The man in the trenchcoat Badge out, laid off Says he's got a bad cough Wants to get it paid off Look out kid It's somethin' you did God knows when But you're doin' it again
You don't need a weather man To know which way the wind blows
Get jailed, jump bail Join the army, if you fail
Don't follow leaders Watch the parkin' meters
Twenty years of schoolin' And they put you on the day shift
The pump don't work 'Cause the vandals took the handles
She's got everything she needs, she's an artist, she don't look back.
She could take the dark out the nighttime and paint the daytime black.
But you will wind up peeking through her keyhole down upon your knees.
Well, I try my best<br />To be just like I am<br />But everybody wants you<br />To be just like them
I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more.
There's no success like failure, and failure's no success at all.
She knows too much to argue or to judge.
In the dime stores and bus stations, <br /> People talk of situations, <br /> Read books repeat quotations, <br /> Draw conclusions on the wall.
Don't ask me nothin' about nothin'. I just might tell you the truth.
The ancient empty street's too dead for dreaming.
Oh, to dance beneath the diamond sky with one hand waving free.
It's not aimed at anyone, it's just escapin' on the run
And if you hear vague traces of skipping reels of rhyme...
Take me disappearing, through the smoke rings of my mind, down the foggy ruins of time...
With all memory and fate driven deep beneath the waves, let me forget about today until tomorrow.
Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man, play a song for me. I'm not sleepy and there is no place I'm going to. Hey, Mr. Tambourine Man, play a song for me. In the jingle-jangle morning, I'll come following you.
Let me forget about today until tomorrow.
All and all can only fall with a crushing but meaningless blow.
And there are no truths outside the Gates of Eden.
Of war and peace the truth just twist, its curfew gull it glides.
Money doesn't talk, it swears. Obscenity, who really cares? Propaganda all is phony.
Pointed threats, they bluff with scorn Suicide remarks are torn From the fool’s gold mouthpiece the hollow horn Plays wasted words, proves to warn That he not busy being born is busy dying.
An' though the rules of the road have been lodged<br />It's only people's games that you got to dodge
Even the president of the United States sometimes must have to stand naked.
It is not he or she or them or it that you belong to.
Disillusioned words like bullets bark As human gods aim for their marks. Make everything from toy guns that spark To flesh-colored Christs that glow in the dark. It's easy to see without looking too far that not much is really sacred.
While others say don't hate nothing at all except hatred
Advertising signs that con you into thinking you are the one That can do what's never been done, That can win what's never been won Meanwhile, life outside goes on all around you
And if my thought-dreams could be seen, they'd probably put my head in a guillotine. But it's alright, Ma, it's life, and life only.
Although the masters make the rules for the wise men and the fools, I got nothing, Ma, to live up to.
You lose yourself, you reappear You suddenly find you got nothin' to fear Alone you stand with nobody near When a trembling distant voice unclear Startles your sleeping ear to hear That somebody thinks they really found you.
Darkness at the break of noon Shadows even the silver spoon The hand made blade, the child's balloon, Eclipses both the sun and moon To understand you know too soon There is no sense in trying.
*While one who sings with his tongue on fire Gargles in the rat race choir Bent out of shape from society’s pliers Cares not to come up any higher But rather get you down in the hole That he’s in
*But I mean no harm nor put fault On anyone that lives in a vault But it’s alright, Ma, if I can’t please him
It's life and life only.
Yonder stands your orphan with his gun, crying like a fire in the sun.
Your lover who just walked out the door, has taken all his blankets from your floor.
Leave your stepping stones behind, something calls for you. </br> Forget the dead you've left, they will not follow you.
The vagabond who's rapping at your door, </br> Is standing in the clothes that you once wore.
You got a lotta nerve to say you are my friend. When I was down, you just stood there grinning.
Do you take me for such a fool to think I'd make contact with one that tries to hide what he don't know to begin with.
I wish that for just one time you could stand inside my shoes. You'd know what a drag it is to see you.
How does it feel? To be on your own, with no direction home, like a complete unknown, like a rolling stone?
Once upon a time you dressed so fine, threw the bums a dime in your prime, didn't you. </br> People call, say beware doll, you're bound to fall, you thought they were all, kiddin you.
You used to laugh about Everybody that was hangin’ out Now you don’t talk so loud Now you don’t seem so proud About having to be scrounging for your next meal
You never turned around to see the frowns, on the jugglers and the clowns when they all did, tricks for you.
Princess on the steeple and all the pretty people, they're drinkin', thinkin' that they got it made
Go to him now, he calls you, you can't refuse. </br> When you ain't got nothing, you got nothing to lose. </br> You're invisible now. You've got no secrets to conceal.
The sun's not yellow, it's chicken.
Stop all this weeping, swallow your pride<br />You will not die, it’s not poison
*The geometry of innocence flesh on the bone<br />Causes Galileo’s math book to get thrown<br />At Delilah who sits worthlessly alone<br />But the tears on her cheeks are from laughter
And the National Bank at a profit sells road maps for the soul<br />To the old folks home and the college
And if I don't make it, you know my baby will.
Well, I wanna be your lover, baby, I don't wanna be your boss.
And you say, Oh my God, am I here all alone?
You've been with the professors and they've all liked your looks. With great lawyers you've discussed lepers and crooks.
You go watch the geek, who immediately walks up to you when he hears you speak, and says, how does it feel to be such a freak?, and you say, impossible as he hands you a bone.
And something is happening here, but you don't know what it is, do you Mr. Jones?
Here's your throat back, thanks for the loan.
You put your eyes in your pockets and your nose on the ground.
They already expect you to just give a check to tax-deductible charity organization.
Oh God said to Abraham, Kill me a son. Abe says, Man, you must be puttin' me on. God say, No. Abe say, What? God say, You can do what you want Abe, but the next time you see me comin' you better run. Well Abe says, Where do you want this killin' done? God says, Out on Highway 61.
Up on Housing Project Hill, it's either fortune or fame. You must pick one or the other, though neither of them are to be what they claim.
Yes, I received your letter yesterday (About the time the door knob broke) When you asked how I was doing Was that some kind of joke? All these people that you mention Yes, I know them, they're quite lame I had to rearrange their faces And give them all another name Right now I can't read too good Don't send me no more letters no Not unless you mail them From Desolation Row 
Now at midnight all the agents, and the superhuman crew, come out and round up everyone, that knows more then they do.
And Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot fighting in the captain's tower while calypso singers laugh at them and fishermen hold flowers...
But I would not feel so all alone, everybody must get stoned!
They’ll stone ya and then they’ll say, “good luck”
Somebody got lucky, but it was an accident.
Oh Mama, can this really be the end? To be stuck inside of Mobile with the Memphis blues again?
And here I sit so patiently waiting to find out what price you have to pay to get out of going through all these things twice.
The one was Texas medicine. the other was just railroad gin. And, like a fool, I mixed them and it strangled up my mind and now people just get uglier and I have no sense of time.
Your debutante knows what you need, but I know what you want.
You see, you're just like me. I hope you're satisfied.
Ain't it just like the night to play tricks when you're trying to be so quiet.
We sit here stranded, though we're all doin' our best to deny it.
And Louise holds a handful of rain, tempting you to defy it.
He’s sure got a lotta gall to be so useless and all
Inside the museums, infinity goes up on trial.<br />Voices echo this is what salvation must be like after a while<br />But, Mona Lisa must have had the highway blues<br />you can tell by the way she smiles
The ghost of 'lectricity howls in the bones of her face.
Name me someone that's not a parasite and I'll go out and say a prayer for him.
Louise she's all right she's just near'<br />She's delicate and seems like veneer'<br />But she just makes it all too concise and too clear'<br />That Johanna's not here
But these visions of Johanna, they make it all seem so cruel.
I couldn’t see what you could show me<br />Your scarf had kept your mouth well hid
I couldn’t see when it started snowin’<br />Your voice was all that I heard
She is good to me There's nothing she doesn't see<br />She knows where I’d like to be<br />But it doesn’t matter...<br />I want you
Nobody feels any pain<br />Tonight as I stand inside the rain
She takes just like a woman, yes she does<br />She makes love just like a woman, yes she does<br />And she aches just like a woman<br />But she breaks just like a little girl.
But to live outside the law, you must be honest.
*Sad-eyed lady of the lowlands,  Where the sad-eyed prophet says that no man comes,  My warehouse eyes, my Arabian drums,  Should I leave them by your gate,  Or, sad-eyed lady, should I wait?
*With your sheets like metal and your belt like lace,  And your deck of cards missing the jack and the ace,  And your basement clothes and your hollow face,  Who among them can think he could outguess you?
I once held her in my arms, She said she would always stay, But I was cruel, I treated her like a fool, I threw it all away. I threw it all away.
Lay, lady, lay. Lay across my big, brass bed.
Whatever colors you have in your mind. I'll show them to you and you'll see them shine.
His clothes are dirty, but his hands are clean, and you're the best thing that he's ever seen.
You can have your cake and eat it, too.
Stay, lady, stay. Stay while the night is still ahead.
Throw my ticket out the window, Throw my suitcase out there too, Throw my troubles out the door, I don't need them anymore, 'Cause tonight I'll be staying here with you.
Ev'rybody's in despair,  Ev'ry girl and boy  But when Quinn the Eskimo gets here,  Ev'rybody's gonna jump for joy.
Come all without, come all within,  You'll not see nothing like the mighty Quinn.
I like to do just like the rest,  I like my sugar sweet, but guarding fumes and making haste,  it ain't my cup of meat.
A cat's meow and a cow's moo,  I can recite 'em all,  just tell me where it hurts you, honey, 
May you build a ladder to the stars and climb on every rung. May your song always be sung, May you stay forever young.
May your hands always be busy. May your feet always be swift. May you have a strong foundation when the winds of changes shift. May your heart always be joyful. May your song always be sung. May you stay forever young.
I paid the price of solitude but at least I'm out of debt.
I hate myself for loving you.
Early one mornin' the sun was shinin', I was layin' in bed  Wond'rin'if she'd changed at all  If her hair was still red.
Tangled up in blue...
Lord knows I've paid some dues gettin' through...
I helped her out of a jam, I guess, but I used a little too much force...
And every one of them words rang true and glowed like burnin' coal. Pourin' off of every page, like it was written in my soul from me to you...
The only thing I knew how to do was to keep on keepin' on like a bird that flew...
All the people we used to know, they're an illusion to me now...
Don't know how it all got started, I don't know what they do with their lives...
We always did feel the same, we just saw it from a different point of view...
But all the while I was alone  The past was close behind,  I seen a lot of women  But she never escaped my mind, 
I lived with them on Montague Street  In a basement down the stairs  There was music in the cafes at night  And revolution in the air.
You're an idiot, babe. It's a wonder that you still know how to breathe.
I can't help it if I'm lucky.
Visions of your chestnut mare shoot through my head and are makin' me see stars.
I waited for you on the running boards, near the cypress trees, while the springtime turned slowly into autumn.
Idiot wind, blowing through the buttons of our coats, blowing through the letters that we wrote. Idiot wind, blowing through the dust upon our shelves, We're idiots, babe. It's a wonder we can even feed ourselves.
It was gravity which pulled us in and destiny which broke us apart
You tamed the lion in my cage but it just wasn't enough to change my heart
Down the highway, down the tracks, down the road to ecstacy,  I followed you beneath the stars, hounded by your memory and all your ragin' glory
You'll never know the hurt I suffer, nor the pain I rise above, and I'll never know the same about you...
I kiss good-bye the howling beast on the borderline which separated you from me.
I’m going out of my mind, oh, oh; with a pain that stops and starts; like a corkscrew to my heart; Ever since we’ve been apart
A change in the weather is known to be extreme; but what's the sense in changing horses in mid-stream?
Time is a jetplane — it moves too fast. Oh but what a shame that all we've shared can't last...
Love is so simple, to quote a phrase; you've known it all the time, I'm learnin' it these days.
I know where I can find you — in somebody's room. It's the price I have to pay, you're a big girl all the way.
Backstage the girls were playin' five-card stud by the stairs,  Lily had two queens, she was hopin' for a third to match her pair.  Outside the streets were fillin' up, the window was open wide,  A gentle breeze was blowin', you could feel it from inside.  Lily called another bet and drew up the Jack of Hearts.
Beauty walks a razor's edge, someday I'll make it mine.
Try imagining a place where it's always safe and warm...
"Come in", she said, "I'll give you shelter from the storm."
I always have respected her for doin' what she did and gettin' free
Say for me that I'm all right though things get kind of slow  She might think that I've forgotten her don't tell her it isn't so.
Sundown yellow moon I replay the past  I know every scene by heart they all went by so fast
If she's passing back this way I'm not that hard to find  Tell her she can look me up if she's got the time.
If your mem'ry serves you well, we were gonna meet again and wait, so I think I'll just unpack my bags and sit before it gets too late.  No man alive will come to you with another tale to tell, but you know that we shall meet again, if your mem'ry serves you well.
If your memory serves you well, I was gonna confiscate your lace and wrap it up in a sailor's knot and hide it in your case.  And if I knew for sure that it was yours, it was oh so hard to tell, and you know that we shall meet again, if your memory serves you well.
If your memory serves you well, I remember you're the one who called out me to call out them to get your business done.  And after every plan has failed, and there was nothing left to tell, well you knew that we shall meet again if your memory serves you well.
Wheels on fire, rolling down the road, best notify my next of kin, this wheel shall explode!
Take care of all your memories. said my friend Mick, For you cannot relive them.
Here comes the story of The Hurricane, the man the authorities came to blame for something that he never done. </br> Put in a prison cell, but one time he coulda been the champion of the world.
Couldn't help but make me feel ashamed to live in a land, where justice is a game.
There's lots of pretty girls in Mozambique.
It may be the Devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody.
You may call me Bobby; you may call me Zimmy...
Now there's spiritual warfare, flesh and blood breaking down. You either got faith or you got unbelief, and there ain't no neutral ground.
The enemy is subtle. How be it we're deceived? When the truth's in our hearts and we still don't believe.
My so-called friends have fallen under a spell: they look me squarely in the eye and say, "Well; all is well."
We are covered in blood, girl. You know both our forefathers were slaves. Let us hope they've found mercy in their bone-filled graves.
They'd like to drive me from this town; they don't want me around, 'cause I believe in you.
I believe in you even on the morning after.
Have they counted the cost it'll take to bring down all the earthly principles they're gonna have to abandon?
All that foreign oil controlling American soil. Look around you, it's just bound to make you embarrassed: sheiks walking around like kings, wearing fancy jewels and nose rings, deciding America's future from Amsterdam and to Paris.
Man's ego's inflated, his laws are outdated. They don't apply no more. You can't rely no more to be standing around waiting.
Fools glorify themselves, trying to manipulate Satan.
The enemy I see wears a cloak of decency.
People starving and thirsting; grain elevators are bursting. You know, it costs more to store the food than it do to give it.
They talk about a life of brotherly love? Show me someone who knows how to live it.
It sure do bother me to see my loved ones turning into puppets.
(Alternate version.) A brave man will kill you with a sword, a coward with a kiss.
Don't wanna judge nobody — don't wanna be judged.
You got some big dreams, baby, but in order to dream you gotta still be asleep.
Counterfeit philosophies have polluted all of your thoughts; Karl Marx has got you by the throat, and Henry Kissinger's got you tied up into knots.
You got innocent men in jail, your insane asylums are filled.
Do you ever wonder just what God requires? You think he's just an errand boy to satisfy your wandering desires.
They tell you "Time is money," as if your life was worth its weight in gold.
When you gonna wake up and strengthen the things that remain?
Truth is an arrow, and the gate is narrow that it passes through.
I am hanging in the balance of the reality of man. Like every sparrow falling, like every grain of sand.
Freedom just around the corner for you, but with truth so far off, what good will it do?
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread, both of their futures so full of dread.
Shedding off one more layer of skin, keeping one step ahead of the persecutor within.
You go to Sodom and Gomorrah, but what do you care? Ain't nobody there would want to marry your sister.
You look into the fiery furnace, see the rich man without any name.
The book of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the law of the jungle and the sea are your only teachers.
The rifleman's stalking the sick and the lame; preacherman seeks the same. Who'll get there first is uncertain.
A woman just gave birth to a prince today and dressed him in scarlet. He'll put the priest in his pocket, put the blade to the heat, take the motherless children off the street and place them at the feet of a harlot.
A woman like you should be at home. That's where you belong, taking care of somebody nice who don't know how to do you wrong.
Just how much abuse will you be able to take? Well, there's no way to tell by the first kiss.
They say in your father's house there's many mansions; each one of 'em got a fireproof floor.
They say that patriotism is the last refuge to which a scoundrel clings.
Steal a little and they throw you in jail; steal a lot and they make you king.
There's only one step down from here, baby. It's called the Land of Permanent Bliss.
Sometimes Satan comes as a man of peace.
Nobody sees through him — no, not even the chief of police.
He could be standing next to you, the person that you notice least.
He's following a star, the same one that the three men followed east.
Some one else is speaking with my mouth, but I'm listening only to my heart.
Took a stranger to teach me to look into justice's beautiful face, and to see an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
A lot of people complaining that there is no work. I say, "Why you say that for?" When nothin' you got is US-made — they don't make nothin' here no more.
Capitalism is above the law; it's said it don't count 'less it sells.
It's sundown on the union that was made in the USA. Sure was a good idea till greed got in the way.
Democracy don't rule the world; you'd better get that in your head. This world is ruled by violence.
Yesterday's just a memory; tomorrow's never what it's supposed to be.
Man thinks 'cause he rules the earth, he can do with it as he please. And if things don't change soon, he will.
For man has invented his doom; first step was touching the moon.
Man is opposed to fair play: he wants it all, and he wants it his way.
What looks large from a distance, close up ain't never that big.
Oh, time is short and the days are sweet and passion rules the arrow that flies.
If you want somebody you can trust, trust yourself.
I've been deceived by the clown inside of me. I thought that he was righteous but he's vain.
My patron saint is a-fighting with a ghost. He's always off somewhere when I need him most.
Let me feel your love one more time before I abandon it.
I was just too stubborn to ever be governed by enforced insanity.
If I thought about it, I never would have done it, I guess I would have let it slide.
The old Rounder in the iron mask slipped me the master key, somebody had to unlock your heart, he said it was up to me.
It frightens me the awful truth of how sweet life can be.
When you bite off more than you can chew, you pay the penalty, somebody's got to tell the tale, I guess it must be up to me.
Somebody's got to cry some tears, I guess it must be up to me.
Forgive me, baby, for what I didn't do.
''The Gunfighter'' Turn him loose, let him go, let him say he outdrew me fair and square — I want him to feel what it's like to every moment face his death.
I can't believe we've lived so long and are still so far apart.
I know she ain't you, but she's here, and she's got that dark rhythm in her soul.
She said, "Welcome to the land of the living dead," but you could tell she was so brokenhearted — she said, "Even the swap meets around here are getting pretty corrupt."
We're going all the way, till the wheels fall off and burn, till the sun peels the paint and the seat covers fade and the water moccasins die.
I didn't know whether to duck or to run, so I ran.
When I saw you break down in front of the judge and cry real tears, it was the best damn thing I saw anybody do.
I've always been the kind of person who doesn't like to trespass, but sometimes you just find yourself over the line.
I feel pretty good, but that ain't saying much — I could feel a whole lot better, if you were just here by my side to show me how.
The only thing we knew for sure about Henry Porter was that his name wasn't Henry Porter.
Strange how people who suffer together have stronger connections than those who are most content.
People don't do what they believe in; they just do what's most convenient, then they repent.
Oh, the tree of life is growing where the spirit never dies And the bright light of salvation shines in dark and empty skies.
Tweeter and the Monkey Man were hard up for cash They stayed up all night selling cocaine and hash To an undercover cop who had a sister named Jan Who for reasons unexplained she loved the Monkey Man
Jan had told him many times "it was you to me who taught: in Jersey anything's legal as long as you don't get caught"
We live in a political world Where mercy walks the plank, Life is in mirrors, death disappears Up the steps into the nearest bank.
They'll kick you when you're up and knock you when you're down.
Your mind is your temple, keep it beautiful and free. Don't let an egg get laid in it by something you can't see.
Let me die in my footsteps before I go under the ground.
I'd throw all the guns and the tanks in the sea, for they are mistakes of a past history.
The whole world's a bottle, And life's but a dram, When the bottle gets empty, It sure ain't worth a damn.
When you cease to exist, then who will you blame?
Well, God is in His heaven And we all want what's his But power and greed and corruptible seed Seem to be all that there is I'm gazing out the window Of the St. James Hotel And I know no one can sing the blues  Like Blind Willie McTell
*Drinkin' man listens to the voice he hears,  In a crowded room full of covered up mirrors,  Lookin' into the lost forgotten years  For dignity
I'm sick of love but I'm in the thick of it.
It's not dark yet, but it's getting there...
Behind every beautiful thing there's been some kind of pain
I know it looks like I'm moving, but I'm standing still  Every nerve in my body is so vacant and numb  I can't even remember what it was I came here to get away from
Feel as though my soul has turned into steel. I've still got the scars that the sun didn't heal.
Last night I danced with a stranger, but she just reminded me you were the one.
I'll eat when I'm hungry, drink when I'm dry
Feel like falling in love with the first woman I meet... Putting her in a wheel barrow and wheeling her down the street.
People are crazy and times are strange I'm locked in tight, I'm out of range,  I used to care, but things have changed.
I've been trying to get as far away from myself as I can
I hurt easy, I just don't show it, you can hurt someone and not even know it
All the truth in the world adds up to one big lie
You can't win with a losing hand
If the Bible is right the world will explode
Well I tried my best to be just like I am, but everybody wants you to be just like them
I'm sittin' on my watch so I can be on time.
The future to me is already a thing of the past.
My clothes are wet, tight on my skin/but not as tight as the corner I painted myself in.
You can always come back, but you can't come back all the way.
I was walking through the leaves Falling from the trees. Feelin' like a stranger nobody sees.
So many things that we never will undo I know you're sorry, I'm sorry too.
Drownin' in the poison, got not future got no past.
But my heart is not weary; it's light and it's free I've got nothing but affection for those who've sailed with me.
Politician's got on his jogging shoes, he must be running for office, got no time to lose
I might need a good lawyer, could be your funeral, my trial<br />Well, I cried for you, now it's your turn, you can cry awhile
Gonna forget about myself for a while, gonna go out and see what others need.
Gonna get me an army, some tough sons o' bitches I recruit my army from the orphanages.
I sucked the milk out of a thousand cows.
If I catch my opponents ever sleepin', I'll just slaughter 'em where they lie.
Take your clothes, put 'em in a sack. You goin' down the road, baby, and you cant come back. Someday baby, you ain't gonna worry po' me any more.
I'm listening to Billy Joe Shaver And I'm reading James Joyce Some people they tell me I've got the blood of the land in my voice
*What I wanted to do with Bobby was just to get him to sound in the studio as natural, just as he was in person, and have that extraordinary personality come thru. … After all, he's not a great harmonica player, and he's not a great guitar player, and he's not a great singer. He just happens to be an original. And I just wanted to have that originality come thru.
Bob Dylan took a lot of air out of the room when it came to songwriters. Everybody had a tough row to hoe distinguishing themselves once Bob invented our job.
Dylan is free now to work on his own terms. It would be foolish to predict what he will do next. But hopefully he will remain a mediator, using the language of pop to transcend it. If the gap between past and present continues to widen, such mediation may be crucial. In a communications crisis, the true prophets are the translators.
The minute you try to grab hold of Dylan, he's no longer where he was. He's like a flame: If you try to hold him in your hand you'll surely get burned. Dylan's life of change and constant disappearances and constant transformations makes you yearn to hold him, and to nail him down. And that's why his fan base is so obsessive, so desirous of finding the truth and the absolutes and the answers to him — things that Dylan will never provide and will only frustrate. … Dylan is difficult and mysterious and evasive and frustrating, and it only makes you identify with him all the more as he skirts identity.
"The stage is the only place where I'm happy." But this has its own sadnesses, like so much love. He is the one person who has to be at a Dylan concert and the one person who can't go to a Dylan concert.
http://www.expectingrain.com/jokes.html Bob Dylan Jokeson http://www.expectingrain.com Expecting Rain
http://bobdylan.com/songs/ Bob Dylan Lyrics
http://web.archive.org/20041023091533/www.geocities.com/temptations_page/encomium.html Quotes about Bob Dylan
http://www.slopbucket.com/bob/tbob/writtenword.html Searchable database of Bob's written word
http://dylanfilm.atspace.com/index.html Film dialogue in the lyrics of Bob Dylan.
