Make it so.
Engage.
Tea. Earl Grey. Hot.
Someone once told me that time was a predator that stalked us all our lives. But I rather believe that time is a companion who goes with us on the journey and reminds us to cherish every moment because they'll never come again. What we leave behind is not as important as how we've lived. After all, Number One, we're only mortal.
Reports of my assimilation are greatly exaggerated.
The line must be drawn here! This far, no farther!
If there is one ideal that the Federation holds most dear, it is that all men, all races can be united.
If your issues are with me, then deal with me. This has nothing to do with my ship, nothing to do with the Federation!
Buried deep within you, beneath all the years of pain and anger, there is something that has never been nurtured: the potential to make yourself a better man. And that is what it is to be human. To make yourself more than you are. Oh, yes — I know you. There was a time you looked at the stars and dreamed of what might be.
Space, the final frontier. These are the voyages of the starship Enterprise. Its continuing mission: to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations, to boldly go where no one has gone before!
If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.
Things are only impossible until they're not!
The Prime Directive is not just a set of rules; it is a philosophy ... and a very correct one. History has proven again and again that whenever mankind interferes with a less developed civilization, no matter how well intentioned that interference may be, the results are invariably disastrous.
No being is so important that he can usurp the rights of another.
It is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness; that is life.
Being first at any cost is not always the point.
Let's make sure history never forgets the name ... ''Enterprise''.
There are times, sir, when men of good conscience cannot blindly follow orders. You acknowledge their sentience, but ignore their personal liberties and freedom. Order a man to turn his child over to the state? Not while I'm his captain.
You may test that assumption at your convenience.
Imprisonment is an injury, regardless of how you justify it.
I am Locutus of Borg. Resistance is futile.
You know, there are some words I've known since I was a schoolboy. "With the first link, the chain is forged. The first speech censured, the first thought forbidden, the first freedom denied, chains us all irrevocably." Those words were uttered by Judge ''Aaron Satie'' as wisdom and warning. The first time any man's freedom is trodden on, we're all damaged.
The road from legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think.
I'd be delighted to offer any advice I have on understanding women. When I have some, I'll let you know.
Seize the time... Live now! Make now always the most precious time. Now will never come again.
There are four lights!
No, I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe the afterlife is run by you. The universe is not so badly designed!
There is a way out of every box, a solution to every puzzle; it's just a matter of finding it.
We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not for you to set the standards by which we should be judged!
Now, this will put the ship at risk. Quite frankly, we may not survive. But I want you to believe that I am doing this for a greater purpose, and that what is at stake here is more than any of you can possibly imagine. I know you have your doubts about me, about each other, about this ship.All I can say is that although we have only been together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the fleet. And I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you for a leap of faith — and to trust me.
So, five-card stud, nothing wild. And the sky's the limit.
Captain Picard, is the exact opposite of a Hollywood action-hero.
Picard stands as the bearer of Starfleet's conscience and an exemplar of moral autonomy.
Captain Picard is perceived to be a gentler soul than Captain Kirk.
The new captain of the Enterprise, Jean-Luc Picard, is the wise man. He rules the Enterprise with a sagely wisdom.
As shown in his speech and actions, Picard is a man of intelligence, courage, integrity, compassion, courtesy.
Patrick Stewart's identification with Jean-Luc Picard is a prime exemplar of the extreme entanglement between actor and character produced by cult television programs, yet in Stewart's case this entanglement has not precluded a very active and successful post-''Star Trek'' career.
Those ... who are familiar with the character Captain Picard, already know him to be the leader that we all wish we worked for, whose leadership gives us confidence and comfort in meeting the challenges we face each and every day, and the type of leader that we should strive to become.
The bridge of the Enterprise, under the moderate and controlled command of Captain Picard, is a locus of "enlightened understanding." 
The new captain, Jean-Luc Picard, was French and enjoyed reading, classical music, William Shakespeare, archaeology, and theatre.
Captain Picard is not the swashbuckler that Captain Kirk was.
Only question I Ever thought was hard Was do I like Kirk, Or do I like Picard?
*http://www.startrek.com/database_article/picard-jean-luc Biography of Jean-Luc Picard at the official Star Trek website
*Memory Alpha (a wiki)
