I've been stopped cold from eating another burger!
My reaction is that free speech not only lives, it rocks!
I will continue to use my voice. I believed from the beginning that the lawsuit was an attempt to muzzle my voice, and I come from a people who have struggled and died in order to have a voice in this country. And I refused to be muzzled.
I'm still off hamburgers.
I think that, uh, you know, I'm really happy that the message, or at least some of the message of ''The Secret'' is reaching mass consciousness in a way that people realize that they can begin to, uh, positively affect their lives. That's why when I was on the show and said "I've lived this way my whole life", and people who watched our show for years know that I've been talking about how you take responsibility for your life and the choices that you make. Empower your life. And so, when I say that, you know, um, that's how I live my life, the message of ''The Secret'', that's what I mean. I ''also'' believe, that, uh, medical healing or healing comes in lots of forms. You know that adage about the guy being lost and God sent him a boat and God sent him— then he gets to heaven and says "Why didn't you help me?" And God's, "I sent you the boat, fool!" So, that's the way I look at medical healing.
It felt like a new day.
I understand why people think we're gay. There isn't a definition in our culture for this kind of bond between women. So I get why people have to label it – how can you be this close without it being sexual?
What I learned at a very early age was that I was responsible for my life. And as I became more spiritually conscious, I learned that we all are responsible for ourselves, that you create your own reality by the way you think and therefore act. You cannot blame apartheid, your parents, your circumstances, because you are not your circumstances. You are your possibilities. If you know that, you can do anything.
What other people label or might try to call failure, I have learned is just God's way of pointing you in a new direction.
Well, I don't call you an atheist then. I think if you believe in the awe and the wonder and the mystery, then that ''is'' what God is. That ''is'' what God is, not the bearded guy in the sky.
I know where my lane is, and I know how to stay in my lane. My lane is evolving the consciousness of people.
The thing that I do best is "Be Here. Be Now."
"I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear."
She actually is somebody who has the ability to move mountains and change minds.
Oprah is different. Oprah has an army out there that really listens. She's one of the great marketing machines in history.
So far, I don't see anything negative on this woman. I think she's a real icon. She's much more complex and complicated than just a talk show host. Maya Angelou has said she sees her as a true missionary. Everybody has a different take on Oprah.
She's — her great strength, if anybody watches the show — and I think everybody does in Iowa; it's the number one show in Iowa — she's instructive. She's empowering. Every time you watch an Oprah broadcast, at the end of it, you know more than you started and you feel stronger. That's her strength.
You have to admire Oprah Winfrey. She is the most powerful woman in the country and comes from a very humble background. The woman has succeeded on talent and energy.
*http://www.oprah.com/index Oprah's official website
*http://www.youtube.com/user/OPRAH Oprah Channel on YouTube
*http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=124285128 NPR "Oprah: The Billionaire Everywoman". Audio file, video and biography
*http://www.prnewsnow.com/Public_Release/Teen_Issues_or_Interests/70663.html Oprah Winfrey's Date Safe Project
*http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vtycxLAXVbw Oprah Winfrey 's OWN Network - Video
