When age chills the blood, when our pleasures are past— For years fleet away with the wings of the dove— The dearest remembrance will still be the last, Our sweetest memorial the first kiss of love.
Farewell! if ever fondest prayer For other's weal avail'd on high, Mine will not all be lost in air, But waft thy name beyond the sky.
I only know we loved in vain; I only feel — farewell! farewell!
When we two parted In silence and tears, Half brokenhearted, To sever for years.
In secret we met In silence I grieve, That thy heart could forget, Thy spirit deceive. If I should meet thee After long years, How should I greet thee? With silence and tears.
Near this spot Are deposited the Remains of one Who possessed DOG
The poor dog, in life the firmest friend, The first to welcome, foremost to defend.
Maid of Athens, ere we part,  Give, oh give me back my heart!
The love where Death has set his seal, Nor age can chill, nor rival steal, Nor falsehood disavow.
And thou wert lovely to the last, Extinguish'd, not decay'd; As stars that shoot along the sky Shine brightest as they fall from high.
If I am fool, it is, at least, a doubting one; and I envy no one the certainty of his self-approved wisdom.
Where may the wearied eye repose  When gazing on the Cincinnatus of the West, Whom envy dared not Washington, To make man blush there was but one!
You are the fools, not I — for I did dwell  With a deep thought, and with a softened eye,  On that Old Sexton's natural homily,  In which there was Obscurity and Fame,  The Glory and the Nothing of a Name.
My great comfort is, that the temporary celebrity I have wrung from the world has been in the very teeth of all opinions and prejudices. I have flattered no ruling powers; I have never concealed a single thought that tempted me.
Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever, fare thee well: Even though unforgiving, never 'Gainst thee shall my heart rebel.
My hair is grey, but not with years, Nor grew it white In a single night, As men's have grown from sudden fears.
Oh, God! it is a fearful thing To see the human soul take wing In any shape, in any mood.
A light broke in upon my brain, — It was the carol of a bird; It ceased, and then it came again, The sweetest song ear ever heard.
There 's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away.
There be none of Beauty's daughters With a magic like thee; And like music on the waters Is thy sweet voice to me.
I had a dream, which was not all a dream.
Though the day of my Destiny's over, And the star of my Fate hath declined, Thy soft heart refused to discover The faults which so many could find.
In the desert a fountain is springing, In the wide waste there still is a tree, And a bird in the solitude singing, Which speaks to my spirit of thee.
The careful pilot of my proper woe.
As the liberty lads o'er the sea  Bought their freedom, and cheaply, with blood,  So we, boys, we  Shall die fighting or live free,  And down with all kings but King Ludd!
My boat is on the shore, And my bark is on the sea; But, before I go, Tom Moore. Here's a double health to thee!
Here's a sigh to those who love me, And a smile to those who hate: And, whatever sky's above me, Here's a heart for every fate.
Were't the last drop in the well, As I gasp'd upon the brink, Ere my fainting spirit fell 'T is to thee that I would drink.
"Bring forth the horse!" — the horse was brought; In truth, he was a noble steed, A Tartar of the Ukraine breed, Who look'd as though the speed of thought Were in his limbs.
*And if we do but watch the hour, There never yet was human power Which could evade, if unforgiven, The patient search and vigil long Of him who treasures up a wrong.
When a man hath no freedom to fight for at home, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Let him combat for that of his neighbours; Let him think of the glories of Greece and of Rome &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And get knock'd on the head for his labours. To do good to mankind is the chivalrous plan, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And is always as nobly requited; Then battle for freedom wherever you can. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And, if not shot or hang'd, you'll get knighted.
Oh, talk not to me of a name great in story; The days of our youth are the days of our glory; And the myrtle and ivy of sweet two-and-twenty Are worth all your laurels, though ever so plenty.
The best of prophets of the future is the past.
The world is a bundle of hay, Mankind are the asses that pull, Each tugs in a different way— And the greatest of all is John Bull!
Send me no more reviews of any kind. — I will read no more of evil or good in that line. — Walter Scott has not read a review of ''himself'' for ''thirteen years''.
I live, but live to die: and, living, see nothing to make death hateful, save an innate clinging, a loathsome and yet all invincible instinct of life, which I abhor, as I despise myself, yet cannot overcome — and so I live. Would I had never lived!
Because He is all-powerful, must all-good, too, follow? I judge but by the fruits—and they are bitter— Which I must feed on for a fault not mine.
Who killed John Keats? "I," says the Quarterly, So savage and Tartarly; "'Twas one of my feats."
He seems To have seen better days, as who has not Who has seen yesterday?
Sublime tobacco! which from east to west Cheers the tar's labor or the Turkman's rest.
Divine in hookas, glorious in a pipe When tipp'd with amber, mellow, rich, and ripe; Like other charmers, wooing the caress More dazzlingly when daring in full dress; Yet thy true lovers more admire by far Thy naked beauties—give me a cigar!
Jack was embarrassed — never hero more, And as he knew not what to say, he swore.
What's drinking? A mere pause from thinking!
My days are in the yellow leaf; The flowers and fruits of Love are gone; The worm — the canker, and the grief Are mine alone!
Seek out — less often sought than found — A Soldier's Grave, for thee the best; Then look around and choose thy Ground, And take thy Rest.
I awoke one morning and found myself famous.
A great poet belongs to no country; his works are public property, and his Memoirs the inheritance of the public.
Hands promiscuously applied, Round the slight waist, or down the glowing side.
They never fail who die In a great cause.
Friendship may, and often does, grow into love, but love never subsides into friendship.
Lord of himself,—that heritage of woe!
It is the hour when from the boughs The nightingale's high note is heard; It is the hour when lovers' vows Seem sweet in every whisper'd word.
Yet in my lineaments they trace Some features of my father's face.
Born in the garret, in the kitchen bred.
Whose game was empires and whose stakes were thrones, Whose table earth, whose dice were human bones.
I loved my country, and I hated him.
Friendship is Love without his wings.
What say you to such a supper with such a woman?
I'll publish right or wrong: Fools are my theme, let satire be my song.
'Tis pleasure, sure, to see one's name in print; A book's a book, although there's nothing in 't.
A man must serve his time to every trade Save censure — critics are ready-made.
With just enough of learning to misquote.
As soon Seek roses in December, ice in June; Hope constancy in wind, or corn in chaff; Believe a woman or an epitaph, Or any other thing that's false, before You trust in critics, who themselves are sore.
Better to err with Pope, than shine with Pye.
*Perverts the Prophets and purloins the Psalms.
*Oh, Amos Cottle! Phœbus! what a name!
'Twas thine own eagle, stretch'd upon the plain, No more through rolling clouds to soar again, View'd his own feather on the fatal dart, And wing'd the shaft that quiver'd in his heart.
*Yet truth will sometimes lend her noblest fires, And decorate the verse herself inspires: This fact, in virtue's name, let Crabbe attest,— Though Nature's sternest painter, yet the best.
Know ye the land where the cypress and myrtle Are emblems of deeds that are done in their clime? Where the rage of the vulture, the love of the turtle, Now melt into sorrow, now madden to crime!
Where the virgins are soft as the roses they twine, And all, save the spirit of man, is divine?
*The light of love, the purity of grace, The mind, the music breathing from her face, 19 The heart whose softness harmonized the whole,— And oh, that eye was in itself a soul!
*Who hath not proved how feebly words essay To fix one spark of beauty's heavenly ray? Who doth not feel, until his failing sight Faints into dimness with its own delight, His changing cheek, his sinking heart, confess The might, the majesty of loveliness?
*The blind old man of Scio's rocky isle.
*Be thou the rainbow to the storms of life, The evening beam that smiles the clouds away, And tints to-morrow with prophetic ray!
Mark! where his carnage and his conquests cease! He makes a solitude, and calls it — peace!
Hark! to the hurried question of despair: "Where is my child?"—an echo answers, "Where?"
He who hath bent him o'er the dead Ere the first day of death is fled,— The first dark day of nothingness, The last of danger and distress, Before decay's effacing fingers Have swept the lines where beauty lingers.
*Such is the aspect of this shore; 'T is Greece, but living Greece no more! So coldly sweet, so deadly fair, We start, for soul is wanting there.
Shrine of the mighty! can it be That this is all remains of thee?
For freedom's battle, once begun, Bequeath'd by bleeding sire to son, Though baffled oft, is ever won.
And lovelier things have mercy shown To every failing but their own, And every woe a tear can claim Except an erring sister's shame.
The keenest pangs the wretched find Are rapture to the dreary void, The leafless desert of the mind,  The waste of feelings unemployed.
Better to sink beneath the shock Than moulder piecemeal on the rock.
The cold in clime are cold in blood,  Their love can scarce deserve the name.
I die — but first I have possessed, And come what may, I have been blessed.
She was a form of life and light That seen, became a part of sight, And rose, where'er I turn'd mine eye, The morning-star of memory! Yes, love indeed is light from heaven;  A spark of that immortal fire With angels shared, by Alla given,  To lift from earth our low desire.
The fatal facility of the octosyllabic verse.
Oh who can tell, save he whose heart hath tried.
*O'er the glad waters of the dark blue sea, Our thoughts as boundless, and our souls as free, Far as the breeze can bear, the billows foam, 22 Survey our empire, and behold our home! These are our realms, no limit to their sway,— Our flag the sceptre all who meet obey.
*She walks the waters like a thing of life, And seems to dare the elements to strife.
*The power of thought,—the magic of the mind!
Such hath it been — shall be — beneath the sun The many still must labour for the one!
*There was a laughing devil in his sneer.
Hope withering fled, and Mercy sighed farewell!
*Farewell! For in that word, that fatal word,—howe'er We promise, hope, believe,—there breathes despair.
No words suffice the secret soul to show, For truth denies all eloquence to woe.
He left a corsair's name to other times, Linked with one virtue, and a thousand crimes.
She walks in beauty, like the night Of cloudless climes and starry skies; And all that's best of dark and bright Meet in her aspect and her eyes: Thus mellow'd to that tender light Which heaven to gaudy day denies.
The Assyrian came down like the wolf on the fold, And his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold; And the sheen of their spears was like stars on the sea, When the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee.
For the Angel of Death spread his wings on the blast.
And the might of the Gentile, unsmote by the sword, Hath melted like snow in the glance of the Lord!
*When all of genius which can perish dies.
*Folly loves the martyrdom of fame.
*Who track the steps of glory to the grave.
Sighing that Nature formed but one such man, And broke the die, in molding Sheridan.
*And both were young, and one was beautiful.
And to his eye There was but one beloved face on earth, And that was shining on him.
She was his life, The ocean to the river of his thoughts, Which terminated all.
A change came o'er the spirit of my dream.
*And they were canopied by the blue sky, So cloudless, clear, and purely beautiful That God alone was to be seen in heaven.
Titan! to whom immortal eyes  The sufferings of mortality  Seen in their sad reality,  Were not as things that gods despise;  What was thy pity's recompense?  A silent suffering, and intense;  The rock, the vulture, and the chain,  All that the proud can feel of pain,  The agony they do not show,  The suffocating sense of woe,  Which speaks but in its loneliness,  And then is jealous lest the sky  Should have a listener, nor will sigh  Until its voice is echoless.
Titan! to thee the strife was given  Between the suffering and the will,  Which torture where they cannot kill;  And the inexorable Heaven,  And the deaf tyranny of Fate,  The ruling principle of Hate,  Which for its pleasure doth create  The things it may annihilate,  Refused thee even the boon to die:  The wretched gift eternity  Was thine — and thou hast borne it well.  All that the Thunderer wrung from thee  Was but the menace which flung back  On him the torments of thy rack;  The fate thou didst so well foresee,  But would not to appease him tell;  And in thy Silence was his Sentence,  And in his Soul a vain repentance,  And evil dread so ill dissembled,  That in his hand the lightnings trembled.
Thy Godlike crime was to be kind,  To render with thy precepts less  The sum of human wretchedness,  And strengthen Man with his own mind;  But baffled as thou wert from high,  Still in thy patient energy,  In the endurance, and repulse  Of thine impenetrable Spirit,  Which Earth and Heaven could not convulse,  A mighty lesson we inherit:  Thou art a symbol and a sign  To Mortals of their fate and force;  Like thee, Man is in part divine,  A troubled stream from a pure source;  And Man in portions can foresee  His own funereal destiny;  His wretchedness, and his resistance,  And his sad unallied existence:  To which his Spirit may oppose  Itself — and equal to all woes,  And a firm will, and a deep sense,  Which even in torture can decry  Its own concenter'd recompense,  Triumphant where it dares defy,  And making Death a Victory.
Sorrow is knowledge: they who know the most Must mourn the deepest o’er the fatal truth, The Tree of Knowledge is not that of Life.
Mont Blanc is the Monarch of mountains; They crowned him long ago, On a throne of rocks — in a robe of clouds – With a Diadem of Snow.
*But we, who name ourselves its sovereigns, we, Half dust, half deity, alike unfit To sink or soar.
Think'st thou existence doth depend on time? It doth; but actions are our epochs: mine Have made my days and nights imperishable Endless, and all alike, as sands on the shore Innumerable atoms; and one desert Barren and cold, on which the wild waves break, But nothing rests, save carcases and wrecks, Rocks, and the salt-surf weeds of bitterness.
Knowledge is not happiness, and science <br /> But an exchange of ignorance for that <br /> Which is another kind of ignorance.
The heart ran o'er With silent worship of the great of old! The dead but sceptred sovereigns, who still rule Our spirits from their urns.
Old man! ’tis not so difficult to die.
So, we'll go no more a roving So late into the night, Though the heart be still as loving, And the moon be still as bright.
For the sword outwears its sheath, And the soul wears out the breast, And the heart must pause to breathe, And love itself have rest.
Though the night was made for loving, And the day returns too soon, Yet we'll go no more a roving By the light of the moon.
*For most men (till by losing rendered sager) Will back their own opinions by a wager.
*Soprano, basso, even the contra-alto, Wished him five fathom under the Rialto.
His heart was one of those which most enamour us, Wax to receive, and marble to retain: He was a lover of the good old school, Who still become more constant as they cool.
Besides, they always smell of bread and butter.
I love the language, that soft bastard Latin, Which melts like kisses from a female mouth, And sounds as if it should be writ on satin, With syllables which breathe of the sweet South, And gentle liquids gliding all so pat in, That not a single accent seems uncouth, Like our harsh northern whistling, grunting guttural, Which we're obliged to hiss, and spit, and sputter all.
Heart on her lips, and soul within her eyes, Soft as her clime, and sunny as her skies.
O Mirth and Innocence! O milk and water! Ye happy mixtures of more happy days.
How my soul hates This language,  Which makes life itself a lie, Flattering dust with eternity.
By all that's good and glorious.
Eat, drink, and love; the rest's not worth a fillip.
I am the very slave of circumstance  And impulse — borne away with every breath!  Misplaced upon the throne — misplaced in life.  I know not what I could have been, but feel  I am not what I should be — let it end.
But take this with thee: if I was not form'd  To prize a love like thine, a mind like thine,  Nor dote even on thy beauty — as I've doted  On lesser charms, for no cause save that such  Devotion was a duty, and I hated  All that look'd like a chain for me or others  (This even rebellion must avouch); yet hear  These words, perhaps among my last — that none  E'er valued more thy virtues, though he knew not  To profit by them…
Oh! if thou hast at length  Discover'd that my love is worth esteem,  I ask no more—but let us hence together,  And I — let me say ''we'' — shall yet be happy.  Assyria is not all the earth—we'll find  A world out of our own — and be more bless'd  Than I have ever been, or thou, with all  An empire to indulge thee.
The dust we tread upon was once alive.
My best! my last friends!  Let's not unman each other: part at once:  All farewells should be sudden, when for ever,  Else they make an eternity of moments,  And clog the last sad sands of life with tears.  Hence, and be happy: trust me, I am not  Now to be pitied; or far more for what  Is past than present; — for the future, 'tis  In the hands of the deities, if such  There be: I shall know soon. Farewell — Farewell.
The "good old times" — all times when old are good — Are gone.
Where is he, the champion and the child Of all that's great or little, wise or wild; Whose game was empires, and whose stakes were thrones; Whose table earth — whose dice were human bones?
While Franklin's quiet memory climbs to heaven, Calming the Washington's a watchword, such as ne'er Shall sink while there's an echo left to air.
It would be difficult, perhaps, to find the annals of a nation less stained with crimes than those of the Armenians, whose virtues have been those of peace, and their vices those of compulsion. But whatever may have been their destiny — and it has been bitter — whatever it may be in future, their country must ever be one of the most interesting on the globe.
Armenian is a rich language, however, and would amply repay any one the trouble of learning it.
What helps it now, that Byron bore, With haughty scorn which mocked the smart, Through Europe to the Aetolian shore The pageant of his bleeding heart? That thousands counted every groan, And Europe made his woe her own?
If they had said that the sun or the moon had gone out of the heavens, it could not have struck me with the idea of a more awful and dreary blank in creation than the words: "Byron is dead!"
The world is rid of Lord Byron, but the deadly slime of his touch still remains.
Lord Byron is great only as a poet; as soon as he reflects, he is a child.
It still saddens me that Lord Byron, who showed such impatience with the fickle public, wasn't aware of how well the Germans can understand him and how highly they esteem him. With us the moral and political tittle-tattle of the day falls away, leaving the man and the talent standing alone in all their brilliance.
Lord Byron makes man after his own image, woman after his own heart; the one is a capricious tyrant, the other a yielding slave.
Whatever he does, he must do in a more decided and daring manner than any one else; he lounges with extravagance, and yawns so as to alarm the reader!
In a room at the end of the garden to this house was a magnificent rocking-horse, which a friend had given my little boy; and Lord Byron, with a childish glee becoming a poet, would ride upon it. Ah! why did he ever ride his Pegasus to less advantage?
You speak of Lord Byron and me — there is this great difference between us. He describes what he sees — I describe what I imagine. Mine is the hardest task.
Mad, bad and dangerous to know.
From the poetry of Lord Byron they drew a system of ethics, compounded of misanthropy and voluptuousness, a system in which the two great commandments were, to hate your neighbour, and to love your neighbour's wife.
I never heard a single expression of fondness for him fall from the lips of any of those who knew him well.
''Tragedy of childhood''. Not infrequently, noble-minded and ambitious men have to endure their harshest struggle in childhood, perhaps by having to assert their characters against a low-minded father, who is devoted to pretense and mendacity, or by living, like Lord Byron, in continual struggle with a childish and wrathful mother. If one has experienced such struggles, for the rest of his life he will never get over knowing who has been in reality his greatest and most dangerous enemy.
Always looking at himself in mirrors to make sure he was sufficiently outrageous.
Our Lord Byron — the fascinating — faulty — childish — philosophical being — daring the world — docile to a private circle — impetuous and indolent — gloomy and yet more gay than any other.
If I could envy any man for successful ill nature I should envy Lord Byron for his skill in satirical nomenclature.
The news came to the village — the dire news which spread across the land, filling men's hearts with consternation — that Byron was dead. Tennyson was then about a boy of fifteen.<p>"Byron was dead! I thought the whole world was at an end," he once said, speaking of those bygone days. "I thought everything was over and finished for everyone — that nothing else mattered. I remembered I walked out alone, and carved 'Byron is dead' into the sandstone."
*{{gutenberg author | id=George_Byron | name=George Byron}}
