Some people, well, if they don't like Scientology, well, then, fuck you. Really. Fuck you. Period.
The important thing with a child is that you love them, you protect them and you help them to grow and find out who they are. And as a parent, it's my responsibility to help them to become independent and get all the knowledge and a broad view of the world and life. I know that Nic&nbsp;former wife Nicole Kidman&nbsp;absolutely agrees with that. And that's what's important: being there.
I kept looking&nbsp;at wife Katie Holmes&nbsp;and thinking, 'This woman's amazing.' I'm happy that I'm with her. She's amazing, and I'd think the same of her even if she wasn't with me -- she's just amazing.
It was more than fun, and it was more than great... It was historic. What Oprah did by acknowledging those women... they've not only had an impact on women, and African-American women, but on men, and on the world. They really have changed the culture for the better. It's a great inspiration.
Sex is about the connection. Great sex is a by-product, for me, of a great relationship, where you have communication and it's an extension of that. Where it's just free. And that's how it should be. It's spectacular.
I think it's a privilege to call yourself a Scientologist and it's something you have to earn. And because a Scientologist does, he or she has the ability to create new and better realities, and improve conditions.
There was a time I went through&nbsp;the Scientology doctrine, I said, you know what, when I read it, I just thought 'Woah', this is it. This is exactly it.
Being a Scientologist, when you drive past an accident, it's not like anyone else, it's, you drive past, you know you have to do something about it. You know you are the only one who can really help. That's what drives me.
We are the authorities on getting people off drugs. We are the authorities on the mind. We are the authorities on improving conditions. Criminon ''(sic)''. We can rehabilitate criminals. We can bring peace and unite cultures.
It's like, we're here to help. If you're a Scientologist, you see life, things, the way they are, in all its glory, in all of its perplexity, and the more you know as a Scientologist, the more you become overwhelmed by it.
I have to tell you something. It really is, you know, it's rough and tumble. It's wild and woolly. It's a blast...it's a blast. It really is fun, because dammit, there's nothing better than to going out there and fighting the fight...
I want to know that I've done everything I could every day I think of all those people out there who are depending on us. I think about it. It does make me feel we need more work, more help. Get those spectators on the playing field, or out of the arena. Really, that is how I feel about it. I do what I can, and I do it the way I do everything... there's nothing part of the way for me.
I believe in God. … There is no way you can be up here in the Rocky Mountains and think that there isn't a God.
But even when I started out with ''Risky Business'' and ''Top Gun'' came out, there was the paparazzi. You knew them, and I could go up to them and say, 'Give me a break tonight. I'll give you the shots tomorrow.'
That's laughable to me. That stuff's laughable.
Working with Tom is one of the greatest gifts I've ever been given by this business.
*Andreas Heldal-Lund
*David Miscavige
*L. Ron Hubbard
*Scientology
*Xenu
