(After setting fake bust on fire and putting it out) Look at this! My first day as a woman and I'm getting hot flashes.
(Drops false teeth in drink, Stuart doubletakes and pulls a strange face). Oh (pretends to talk with no teeth) Carpe dentum. Seize the teeth. (retrieves dentures from wine glass with fork, shakes them) Just shake them off, like a dog...
Oh! Oh, I saw it! Some angry member of the kitchen staff, did you not tip them? Oh, the terrorists, they ran that way, it was a run-by fruiting!
I can hip-hop, be-bop, dance till ya drop, and yo yo, make a wicked cup of cocoa.
Ohh thank you, dear. Yes, touch me again and I'll drown you ya bastard!
Look, Natty. That's called liposuction.
(Is walking across the street, then almost gets mugged. Hits mugger in the face.) (As Daniel) Back off, asshole! BEAT IT!
You know they often say a man with a car like that's trying to compensate for smaller genitals. But not in your case, cause I see that you're a strapping lad aren't ya.
(observing Stu's Mercedes) Loverboy is here... what a beautiful little car for Don Juan. (reaches down, rips hood ornament off) So sad when that happens...
She's got her own personal jackhammer in the bedroom. (Stuart spits out his drink, appalled). She could break sidewalks to that thing. Surprised she hasn't chipped her teeth. She uses it and the lights dim, it's like a prison movie.
Sink the sub? Hide the weasel? Park the porpoise? A bit of the old Humpty-Dumpty? The Bone Dance, eh? Little Jack Horny, Baloney Bop? Bit of the old Cunning Linguistics, huh?
Upstairs, my little noseminers! Go! Flee before me! Onward and upward! Go pump some neurons. Expand your craniums!
''reading a letter on T.V.'' "Dear Mrs. Doubtfire; Two months ago, my mom and dad decided to separate. Now they live in different houses. My brother Andrew says that we aren't a real family any more. Is this true? Did I lose my family? Is there anything I could do to get my parents back together? Sincerely, Katie McCormick." Oh, my dear Katie. You know, some parents get along much better when they don't live together. They don't fight all the time and they can become better people. Much better mommies and daddies for you. And sometimes they get back together. And sometimes they don't, dear. And if they don't... don't blame yourself. Just because they don't love each other doesn't mean that they don't love you. There are all sorts of different families, Katie. Some families have one mommy, some families have one daddy, or two families. Some children live with their uncle or aunt. Some live with their grandparents, and some children live with foster parents. Some live in separate homes and neighborhoods, in different areas of the country. They may not see each other for days, weeks, months or even years at a time. But if there's love, dear, those are the ties that bind. And you'll have a family in your heart forever. All my love to you, poppet. You're going to be all right. Bye-bye.
Ever wish you could freeze frame a moment in your day, and look at it and say "this is not my life"?
I'm ready for my close-up, Mr. DeMille.
Watch your mouth, young man!
Loser? Oh yeah?
It's not working. Need to go older.
Could you make me a woman?
They're biased. That's a mistrial.
(after burning his hands on a hot cooking pot) Mother!!
Showtime.
I'm not a Muslim!
Yeah, honey. It's me.
It's a voiceover. It's an interior monologue. Maybe even the voice of God. That's even better.
Oh, Great.
She Makes Dinner. She Does Windows. She Reads Bedtime Stories. She's A Blessing... In Disguise.
She'll Rock Your World.
Robin Williams — Daniel Hillard/Mrs. Doubtfire
Sally Field — Miranda Hillard
Lisa Jakub — Lydia Hillard
Matthew Lawrence — Christopher Hillard
Mara Wilson — Natalie Hillard
Pierce Brosnan — Stuart Dunmeyer
Fierstein — Frank Hillard
Scott Capurro — Jack Hillard
Robert Prosky — Jonathan Lundy
Polly Holliday — Gloria Chaney
Anne Haney — Mrs. Sellner
Martin Mull — Justin Gregory
Todd Williams — Todd the Bartender
{{imdb title| id=0107614| title=Mrs. Doubtfire}}
{{rotten-tomatoes| id=mrs_doubtfire| title=Mrs. Doubtfire}}
