Keep flying, son. And watch that potty mouth!
Weapons down or I will not be responsible for what comes next.
Ninety percent of the casualties of World War I were soldiers, fraulein. But half the people who died in World War II were civilians... Half of sixty-one million. I know why I'm fighting, fraulein. I don't want to see World War III.
I'm loyal to nothing, General.. except the Dream.
I fought your kind every day of that war, Zemo! You mocked democracy and said that free men were weak! Well feel this grip, Zemo — it's the grip of a man who loves liberty! Look into the eyes of your foe, and know that he will die for his freedom! The world must never again mistake compassion for weakness! And while I live — it had better not!
Avengers assemble!
Doesn't matter what the press says. Doesn't matter what the politicians or the mobs say. Doesn't matter if the whole country decides that something wrong is something right. This nation was founded on one principle above all else: the requirement that we stand up for what we believe, no matter the odds or the consequences. When the mob and the press and the whole world tell you to move, your job is to plant yourself like a tree beside the river of truth, and tell the whole world — ''"No, you move."''
Do you actually think the fact that you know how to program a computer makes you more of a human being than me? That I'm out of touch because I don't know what you know? I know what freedom is. I know what it feels like to fight for it and I know what it costs to have it. You know compromise.
Captain America is not here to lead the country. I'm here to serve it. If I'm a captain, then I'm a soldier. Not of any military branch, but of the American people. Years ago, in simpler times, this suit and this shield were created as a symbol to help make America the land it's supposed to be... to help it realize its destiny. Ricocheting from super-villain duel to super-villain duel doesn't always serve that purpose. There's a difference between fighting against evil and fighting for the common good. I'm not always able to choose my battles... but effective immediately, I'm going to make an effort to choose the battles that matter. Battles against injustice, against cynicism, against intolerance. I will still serve with the Avengers. I will continue to defend this nation from any and all threats it may face. But as of today, I am not a "super hero." Now and forevermore, I am a man of the people. Together, you and I will identify and confront America's problems. Together, we will figure out what we are and what we can be. Together, we will define the American Dream and make it an American reality.
Listen to me -- all of you out there! You were told by this man -- your hero -- that America is the greatest country in the world!
Courage, Honor, Loyalty, Sacrifice. You're braver than you think.
Sharon... So Pretty... You... Take... My breath...
*These are dark and desperate times. I know that some of you are afraid. It's alright. It's perfectly natural. But I want you to know that I am not. I am not afraid to die this day because what we do here is necessary. It may seem impossible, our enemies may appear to be endless, but that doesn't matter. Because there is no one else. Look at me. I believe in an idea, an idea that a single individual who has the right heart and the right mind that is consumed with a single purpose, that one man can win a war. Give that one man a group of soldiers with the same conviction, and you can change the world.
Surrender??!! You think this letter on my head stands for France?
Yeah, I'm gonna fight you. You know why? Because I fought besides Russians during World War 2. They were good and decent men, and they made terrible painful sacrifices to save their country. And to their country then turn around and put monsters in prisons with nuclear landmines... to see people like ''you'', proudly complicit in this ''nightmare''... Yeah, I'll fight you. You've waited forty years for me in this hellhole, I feel it'd be impolite not to kick your head in.
What are you ladies waiting for, Christmas?!
When Captain America throws his mighty shield, All those who choose to oppose his shield must yield! If he's led to a fight and a duel is due, Then the red and the white and the blue will come through, When Captain America throws his mighty shield!"
Freedom Prevails!
Thumbs up, Soldier!
Good Work, Soldier!
For Truth, Justice, and the American way!
Believe in your country, but believe in yourself!
Stars and Stripes!!! (when performing his "Stars and Stripes" special attack)
Charging Star!!! (when performing his "Charging Star" special attack)
Final Justice! (when performing his "Final Justice" super move)
Your kind's got no shot--not while I'm around.
The day I fall to the likes of you is the day I hang up my shield. (After defeating M.O.D.O.K. in Marvel vs. Capcom 3)
We Avengers will always fight the good fight! (When winning with the Avengers team in Marvel vs. Capcom 3)
You think I'm going down to some pampered punk like you? (when up against Iron Man in Marvel vs. Capcom 3)
Your name's Zero? Hope you don't fight like one. (when up against Zero in Marvel vs. Capcom 3)
On Olympus, we measure Wisdom against Athena, Speed against Hermes, Power against Zeus. But we measure Courage ... against Captain America.
