Sundance is weird. The movies are weird — you actually have to think about them when you watch them.
Carlson: Give me the chronology of the kiss. How did you decide to kiss Madonna?  Spears: Actually, in rehearsals it wasn't something like 'This is what we're going to do.' It was kind of like we play around a little bit and she said before the performance, let's just feel it out and see what happens. I didn't know it was going to be that long and everything, but it was cool.
I think I'm still clean living. That's — I mean I don't go home and have orgies or anything like that. I'm still the same person I've always been.
Honestly, I think we should just trust our president in every decision he makes and should just support that, you know, and be faithful in what happens.
I just want to say that um, I'm just really, really shocked at like how nice our world is because it's just so nice. Like oh my God! Like, the other day, like I was sitting there and I saw these magazines and they said I was pregnant, and like, it's so true. Like America, believe everything you read. Because, like, you're smart and I'm stupid. Like for real. Come on y'all.
Eat it, lick it, snort it, f*%k it!"
I look back and think I'm a smart person! What the hell was I thinking?
*About shocking. You know I feel comfortable in my skin. I think it's an okay thing to express yourself.
*Everyone now, they look back and they're like, "What happened to your sweet image that you used to be?" And I'm like, then when you came out you thought I was too provocative. It's like you can never win. No matter what you do, at the end of the day you can't please everybody, you know. I'm not here to please...
*I think honestly if you can wait until you're married I think you should definitely do that, because it's so much more sacred. That you don't go around sleeping with people. But I mean, I really thought I was going to be with him for the rest of my life, I did.
The only person I do worry about, that I want to be a good person for, I think is my responsibility, is my sister. I'm going to be cool for you, okay. I like, I need to, I like being by myself right now. I think it's good for me.
I’m very, very blessed. But my safety, my privacy, and my respect are three things that I feel like are trying to be taken away from me right now. As a mother I have to speak up and say something. I have to speak up.
I think with anybody who’s doing well in the public eye or whatever, there’s always gonna be a shift because people don’t wanna see somebody happy all the time. And they’re gonna try to take shots at people.
That driving incident, I did it with my dad. I’d sit on his lap and I drive. We’re country.
Oh, I’ve wept. Yeah, I’ve definitely wept just with the world, you know, how judgmental they are. You know what, I know I’m a good mom.
There will be a “Oops 100.” They’ll be plenty more oopses. I’m not perfect. I’m human.
You have babies at home. And you have a life. And if you don’t, you have to realize that we’re people and that we just need privacy and we need our respect. And those are things that you have to have as a human being.
There’s always a way. Where there’s a will there is a way. You have to believe.
*I'm so blessed with my Baby.And i want the most normal life possible for him.And i'll manage,i will create that.
Saying no is so heartbreaking.
Someday I will understand In God`s whole plan And what`s He`s done to me Oh but maybe Someday I will breathe And I`ll finally see See it all in my baby
Every time I try to fly, I fall; Without my wings I feel so small.
Everyday the sun comes up again, A little hope begins.
I don't think you can ever count somebody like her out. Because she may appear one way, but she's very clever.
Yes, I’ve done Britney Spears, but don’t blame me, okay? I make her up and she just takes everything off and does her own thing.
Her song is called "Gimme More" for a reason, because all you people want is more, more, more, more, more! Leave her alone! You're lucky she even performed for you bastards! Leave Britney alone! Please!
Every time I Look at that girl on television,I admire her not beacuse she's a celebrity, I don't admire her celebreality, I admire her because she's a child of God and doesn't know it,.I'm talkin' 'bout Britney Spears. It breaks my heart. Anna Nicole, It broke my heart, you know I knew what she was doing, I didn't like what she was doing,But I know she's a child of God, and I see people all the time, who have so much that don't know they have, so much beauty, inner beauty and so much going for them that they don't know's goin', But the Devil will take everything from you, if you don't know who you are in Christ."
*Watching Britney Spears the other night on the MTV Video Music Awards was like watching a public execution. How could the people at MTV, the people around her, not know this girl was fucked up? People came in expecting a train wreck, and they got more than they bargained for.
Britney’s been doing it since she was like 13. It’s kind of fair that she had a little bit of a meltdown. I mean, she’s been through a lot. I think she’s gonna be alright now. She’s an intelligent girl.
http://www.britneyspears.com/ BritneySpears.com: The Official Web Site
http://www.britney.com/ Britney.com Official Website at Jive Records
http://www.uk.britney.com/ UK.Britney.com: The Official UK Site
{{imdb name|id=0005453|name=Britney Spears}}
http://dir.yahoo.com/Entertainment/Music/Artists/By_Genre/Rock_and_Pop/Spears__Britney/ Britney Spears in Yahoo! Entertainment Directory
*http://celebrity01.blogspot.com Britney Spears Blog
*http://www.untouchablebritney.net Britney Spears Fansite
