I’ll play it and tell you what it is later.
The music has gotten thick. Guys give me tunes and they're full of chords. I can't play them...I think a movement in jazz is beginning away from the conventional string of chords, and a return to emphasis on melodic rather than harmonic variation. There will be fewer chords but infinite possibilities as to what to do with them.
"You can't play anything on a horn that Louis hasn't played." and "I love Pops" (Louis' nickname) … Louis has been through all kinds of styles. That's good tuba, by the way. You know you can't play anything on a horn that Louis hasn't played — I mean even modern. I love his approach to the trumpet; he never sounds bad. He plays on the beat — with feeling. That's another phrase for swing. I also love the way he sings.
I love Pops, I love the way he sings, the way he plays - everything he does, except when he says something against modern-jazz music.
Who's that motherfucker? He can't play shit!
He plays like somebody is standing on his foot.
My ego only needs a good rhythm section.
Is that what you wanted, Alfred?
If somebody told me I only had an hour to live, I'd spend it choking a white man. I'd do it nice and slow.
For me, music and life are all about style.
I've changed music four or five times. What have you done of any importance other than be white?
Why'd you put that white bitch on there?
When you are creating your own shit, man, even the sky ain't the limit.
Don't play what's there, play what's not there.
A legend is an old man with a cane known for what he used to do. I'm still doing it.
Try taking the fucking horn out of your mouth.
It's that goddamned motherfucking 'Machine Gun.'
He could very well be the Duke Ellington of Rock 'n' Roll.
(Bill Evans talking about Miles Davis's change of style to jazz fusion) I would like to hear more of the consummate melodic master, but I feel that big business and his record company have had a corrupting influence on his material. The rock and pop thing certainly draws a wider audience. It happens more and more these days, that unqualified people with executive positions try to tell musicians what is good and what is bad music. It’s tempting for the musican to prejudice his own views when recording opportunities are so infrequent but I for one am determined to resist the temptation.
http://airjudden.tripod.com/jazz/johncoltrane.html Coltrane biography
http://airjudden.tripod.com/jazz/milesdavis.html Davis biography
http://www.entanet.com/jazzconnections/connections/0809.html Miles and Trane
Jazz Quotations
