Not counting you I've never had a heartache. Not counting you I never have been blue. There's no exceptions to the rule; I've never been nobody's fool. I've never lost at love not counting you.
If tomorrow never comes, Will she know how much I loved her? Did I try in every way to show her every day That she's my only one? And if my time on earth were through, And she must face the world without me, Is the love I gave her in the past Gonna be enough to last? If tomorrow never comes.
And the white line's getting longer and the saddle's getting cold. I'm much too young to feel this damn old. All my cards are on the table with no ace left in the hole, I'm much too young to feel this damn old.
The thunder rolls, And the lightnin' strikes. Another love grows cold On a sleepless night. As the storm blows on Out of control, Deep in her heart The thunder rolls.
'Cause I've got friends in low places Where the whiskey drowns And the beer chases my blues away. And I'll be okay. I'm not big on social graces; Think I'll slip on down to the oasis. Oh, I've got friends in low places.
Sometimes I thank God for unanswered prayers. Remember when you're talkin' to the man upstairs, That just because he doesn't answer doesn't mean he don't care. Some of God's greatest gifts are unanswered prayers.
Well it's bulls and blood, It's dust and mud, It's the roar of a Sunday crowd. It's the white in his knuckles, The gold in the buckle, He'll win the next go 'round. It's boots and chaps, It's cowboy hats, It's spurs and latigo. It's the ropes and the reins, And the joy and the pain, And they call the thing rodeo.
'Cause what she's doin' now is tearin' me apart, Fillin' up my mind and emptyin' my heart. I can hear her call each time the cold wind blows, And I wonder if she knows...what she's doin' now.
Mama was a looker, Lord, how she shined. Papa was a good'n, But the jealous kind. Papa loved Mama; Mama loved men. Mama's in the graveyard; Papa's in the pen.
You know a dream is like a river, Ever changin' as it flows. And a dreamer's just a vessel That must follow where it goes. Trying to learn from what's behind you, And never knowing what's in store Makes each day a constant battle Just to stay between the shores...and<p>I will sail my vessel 'Til the river runs dry. Like a bird upon the wind, These waters are my sky. I'll never reach my destination If I never try. So I will sail my vessel 'Til the river runs dry.
When the last child cries for a crust of bread; When the last man dies for just words that he said; When there's shelter over the poorest head, We shall be free.<p>When the last thing we notice is the color of skin, And the first thing we look for is the beauty within, When the skies and the oceans are clean again, Then we shall be free.
Somewhere other than the night She needs to hear I love you. Somewhere other than the night She needs to know you care. She wants to know she's needed, She needs to be held tight Somewhere other than the night.
She had a need to feel the thunder, To chase the lightning from the sky, To watch a storm with all its wonder Written in her lover's eyes. She had to ride the heat of passion Like a comet burning bright, Rushing headlong in the wind Now where only dreams have been, Burning both ends of the night.
Standing outside the fire; Standing outside the fire. Life is not tried, it is merely survived If you're standing outside the fire.
Ain't going down 'til the sun comes up; Ain't givin' in 'til they get enough. Going 'round the world in a pickup truck, Ain't goin' down 'til the sun comes up.
Moonlight on canvas, midnight and wine,<Br>Two shadows starting to softly combine. The picture they're painting Is one of the heart; And to those who have seen it, It's a true work of art.<p>Oh, the red strokes, Passions uncaged; Thundering moments of tenderness rage. Oh, the red strokes, Tempered and strong (Fearlessly drawn), Burning the night like the dawn.
He asked her twice to come along; They said good-bye at the break of dawn. 'Cause you can't hold back the wind, If it's meant to be again, Then someday he'll find his way back to her arms.
He was up in Wyoming, And drew a bull no man could ride. He promised her he'd turn out, Well it turned out that he lied. And their dreams that they'd been livin', In the California sand, Died right there beside him in Cheyenne.
It's midnight Cinderella time that you should know, There's gonna be some changes in the way this story goes. It's midnight Cinderella but don't you worry none, 'Cause I'm Peter Peter the Pumpkin Eater And the party's just begun.
She's anything but typical; She's so unpredictable. Oh but even at her worst it ain't that bad. She's as real as real can be And she's every fantasy. Lord she's every lover that I've ever had. And she's every lover that I've never had.
After seven years of marriage, He wanted out. Now after seven months of freedom, It's clear that there's no doubt.<p>She's gonna make it, And he never will. He's at the foot of the mountain, And she's over that hill. He's sinkin' at sea, And her sails are filled. She's gonna make it, And he never will.
In another's eyes I'm afraid that I can't see This picture perfect portrait that they paint of me. They don't realize and I pray they never do, 'Cause every time I look I'm seein' you In another's eyes.
And what they don't see, Is what is killing me. It's blessing and a curse That love is blind.
For that river of red could be the death of me. God, give me strength and keep reminding me That blood is thicker than water. Oh, but love is thicker than blood.<p>And if blood is thicker than water, Then what are we fighting for? We're all sons and daughters Of something that means so much more.
On a prayer, In a song, I hear your voice, And it keeps me hanging on. Oh, raining down, against the wind, I'm reaching out, 'Till we reach the circle's end. When you come back to me again.
http://www.garthbrooks.com Official site
