We hope all danger may be overcome; but to conclude that no danger may ever arise would itself be extremely dangerous.
Military glory,&mdash;that attractive rainbow that rises in showers of blood.
In law it is a good policy never to plead what you need not, lest you oblige yourself to prove what you cannot.
Determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we shall find the way.
The way for a young man to rise, is to improve himself every way he can, never suspecting that any body wishes to hinder him.
The better part of one's life consists of his friendships.
We live in the midst of alarms; anxiety beclouds the future; we expect some new disaster with each newspaper we read.
Our government rests in public opinion. Whoever can change public opinion, can change the government, practically just so much.
Will springs from the two elements of moral sense and self-interest.
Understanding the spirit of our institutions to aim at the elevation of men, I am opposed to whatever tends to degrade them.
The negative principle that ''no'' law is free law, is not much known except among lawyers.
Stand with anybody that stands RIGHT. Stand with him while he is right and PART with him when he goes wrong.
Will springs from the two elements of moral sense and self-interest.
Has it not got down as thin as the homeopathic soup that was made by boiling the shadow of a pigeon that had starved to death?
Every blade of grass is a study; and to produce two, where there was but one, is both a profit and a pleasure.
During my whole political life, I have loved and revered (Henry Clay) as a teacher and leader.
The severest justice may not always be the best policy.
Beware of rashness, but with energy and sleepless vigilance go forward and give us victories.
I am a slow walker, but I never walk back.
Truth is generally the best vindication against slander.
Men are not flattered by being shown that there has been a difference of purpose between the Almighty and them.
Well, I wish some of you would tell me the brand of whiskey that Grant drinks. I would like to send a barrel of it to my other generals.
Did Stanton say I was a damned fool? Then I dare say I must be one, for Stanton is generally right and he always says what he means.
I do not like that man. I must get to know him better.
When you have got an elephant by the hind leg, and he is trying to run away, it's best to let him run.
"Why, madam," Lincoln replied, "do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?"
An inspection of the Constitution will show that the right of property in a slave is not "distinctly and expressly affirmed" in it.
If slavery is right, all words, acts, laws, and constitutions against it, are themselves wrong, and should be silenced, and swept away.
Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world?
Without slavery the rebellion could never have existed; without slavery it could not continue.
In times like the present men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and in eternity.
The Lord prefers common-looking people. That is why he made so many of them.
I cannot bring myself to believe that any human being lives who would do me any harm.
It's my experience that folks who have no vices have generally very few virtues.
What is to be, will be, and no prayers of ours can arrest the decree.
I have always found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict justice.
All through life, be sure and put your feet in the right place, and then stand firm.
Well, for people that like that sort of thing, I think it is just about the sort of thing they would like.
Force is all-conquering, but its victories are short-lived.
When I do good I feel good, when I do bad I feel bad, and that's my religion.
I want it said of me by those who knew me best that I always plucked a thistle and planted a flower where I thought a flower would grow.
I don't know who my grandfather was; I am much more concerned to know what his grandson will be.
So you're the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war!
He can compress the most words into the smallest ideas of any man I ever met.
I do not think much of a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday.
Folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.
The people will save their government, if the government itself will allow them.
He only has the right to criticize who has the heart to help.
It will not do to investigate the subject of religion too closely, as it is apt to lead to Infidelity.
I hope to have God on my side, but I must have Kentucky!
To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men.
America will never be destroyed from the outside. If we falter and lose our freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves.
Any nation that does not honor its heroes will not long endure.
If you look for the bad in mankind expecting to find it, you surely will.
To ease another's heartache is to forget one's own.
If this is coffee, please bring me some tea; but if this is tea, please bring me some coffee.
I will study and get ready, and perhaps my chance will come.
I am not concerned that you fall; I am concerned that you arise.
I destroy my enemies when I make them my friends.
If I had another face, do you think I would wear this one?
It is better to be silent and be thought a fool than to speak and remove all doubt.
Marriage is neither heaven nor hell, it is simply purgatory.
You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was.
The best way to get a bad law repealed is to enforce it.
The only person who is a worse liar than a faith healer is his patient.
I care not much for a man's religion whose dog and cat are not the better for it.
You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power.
And in the end, it’s not the years in your life that count. It’s the life in your years.
How many legs does a dog have, if you call a tail a leg?
I think we have reason to thank God for Abraham Lincoln. With all his deficiencies, it must be admitted that he has grown continually.
In this temple As in the hearts of the people whom he saved the Union The memory of Abraham Lincoln Is enshrined forever
In his company I was never in any way reminded of my humble origin, or of my unpopular color.
If it wasn't for Abe Lincoln, I'd still be on the open market.
Now let it be written in history and on Mr. Lincoln's tombstone: "He died an unbeliever."
Lincoln marked the half-way post on the road to the sewers. He was a politician first — with devotion as a glorious afterthought.
Ohio claims they are due a president as they haven't had one since Taft. Look at the United States, they have not had one since Lincoln.
There lies the most perfect ruler of men the world has ever seen. Now he belongs to the ages.
He has doctrines, not hatreds, and is without ambition except to do good and serve his country.
The cruelest thing that has happened to Lincoln since he was shot by Booth was to fall into the hands of Carl Sandburg.
To set the stones back in the wall Lest the divided house should fall. The beams of peace he laid, While kings looked on, afraid.
Unheralded, God's captain came As one that answers to his name; Nor dreamed how high his charge, His privilege how large.
A martyr to the cause of man, His blood is freedom's eucharist, And in the world's great hero list His name shall lead the van.
Lo, as I gaze, the statured man, Built up from yon large hand appears: A type that nature wills to plan But once in all a people's years.
No Cæsar he whom we lament, A Man without a precedent, Sent, it would seem, to do His work, and perish, too.
