Mercy to the guilty is cruelty to the innocent.
Nobody ever saw a dog make a fair and deliberate exchange of one bone for another with another dog.
By nature a philosopher is not in genius and disposition half so different from a street porter, as a mastiff is from a greyhound,
The natural price, therefore, is, as it were, the central price, to which the prices of all commodities are continually gravitating.
Secrets in manufactures are capable of being longer kept than secrets in trade.
In the long-run the workman may be as necessary to his master as his master is to him, but the necessity is not so immediate.
Marriage is encouraged in China, not by the profitableness of children, but by the liberty of destroying them.
The world neither ever saw, nor ever will see, a perfectly fair lottery.
the competition of the poor takes away from the reward of the rich.
In England, and in all Roman Catholic countries, the lottery of the church is in reality much more advantageous than is necessary.
China is a much richer country than any part of Europe.
Corn is a necessary, silver is only a superfluity.
It is the natural effect of improvement, however, to diminish gradually the real price of almost all manufactures.
No fixed capital can yield any revenue but by means of a circulating capital.
A man must be perfectly crazy who, where there is tolerable security, does not employ all the stock which he commands,...
It seldom happens, however, that a great proprietor is a great improver.
A merchant, it has been said very properly, is not necessarily the citizen of any particular country.
All for ourselves, and nothing for other people, seems, in every age of the world, to have been the vile maxim of the masters of mankind.
The great affair, we always find, is to get money.
When the profits of trade happen to be greater than ordinary, over-trading becomes a general error both among great and small dealers.
Goods can serve many other purposes besides purchasing money, but money can serve no other purpose besides purchasing goods.
It is not for its own sake that men desire money, but for the sake of what they can purchase with it.
The importation of gold and silver is not the principal, much less the sole benefit which a nation derives from its foreign trade.
What is prudence in the conduct of every private family, can scarce be folly in that of a great kingdom.
Mercantile jealousy is excited, and both inflames, and is itself inflamed, by the violence of national animosity:...
In public, as well as in private expences, great wealth may, perhaps, frequently be admitted as an apology for great folly.
I have no great faith in political arithmetic, and I mean not to warrant the exactness of either of these computations.
The government of an exclusive company of merchants is, perhaps, the worst of all governments for any country whatever.
Monopoly of one kind or another, indeed, seems to be the sole engine of the mercantile system.
Wherever there is great property, there is great inequality.
Upstart greatness is everywhere less respected than ancient greatness.
The tolls for the maintenance of a high road, cannot with any safety be made the property of private persons.
The Hudson's Bay Company, before their misfortunes in the late war, had been much more fortunate than the Royal African Company.
Nothing but the most exemplary morals can give dignity to a man of small fortune.
It is unjust that the whole of society should contribute towards an expence of which the benefit is confined to a part of the society.
II. The tax which each individual is bound to pay ought to be certain, and not arbitrary.
The evident justice and utility of the foregoing maxims have recommended them more or less to the attention of all nations.
But though empires, like all the other works of men, have all hitherto proved mortal, yet every empire aims at immortality.
There is no art which one government sooner learns of another than that of draining money from the pockets of the people.
All registers which, it is acknowledged, ought to be kept secret, ought certainly never to exist.
The value of money is in proportion to the quantity of the necessaries of life which it will purchase.
But bounty and hospitality very seldom lead to extravagance; though vanity almost always does.
The greatest of Scotchmen was the first economist, Adam Smith.
To have never done any thing but make the eighteenth part of a pin, is a sorry account for a human being to give of his existence.
