A happy man is too satisfied with the present to dwell too much on the future.
Unthinking respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth.
The mass of a body is a measure of its energy content.
I have also considered many scientific plans during my pushing you around in your pram!
Make a lot of walks to get healthy and don’t read that much but save yourself some until you’re grown up.
''Raffiniert ist der Herrgott, aber boshaft ist er nicht.''
If A is success in life, then A = x + y + z. Work is x, play is y and z is keeping your mouth shut.
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving.
I believe that whatever we do or live for has its causality; it is good, however, that we cannot see through to it.
The really good music, whether of the East or of the West, cannot be analyzed.
To punish me for my contempt of authority, Fate has made me an authority myself.
I never think of the future. It comes soon enough.
''Der Glaube an eine vom wahrnehmenden Subjekt unabhängige Außenwelt liegt aller Naturwissenschaft zugrunde.''
Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile.
I never failed in mathematics. Before I was fifteen I had mastered differential and integral calculus.
All of science is nothing more than the refinement of everyday thinking.
Perfection of means and confusion of goals seem—in my opinion—to characterize our age.
Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. I can assure you mine are still greater.
Why is it nobody understands me and everybody likes me?
It is easier to denature plutonium than it is to denature the evil spirit of man.
A new type of thinking is essential if mankind is to survive and move toward higher levels.
As long as there are sovereign nations possessing great power, war is inevitable.
''Er ist eine Skala der Proportionen, die das Schlechte schwierig und das Gute leicht macht.
Had I known that the Germans would not succeed in producing an atomic bomb, I would not have lifted a finger.
Never do anything against conscience even if the state demands it.
Since the mathematicians have invaded the theory of relativity, I do not understand it myself anymore.
I do not know how the Third World War will be fought, but I can tell you what they will use in the Fourth — rocks!
I believe that pipe smoking contributes to a somewhat calm and objective judgment in all human affairs.
I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.
I think that only daring speculation can lead us further and not accumulation of facts.
It gives me great pleasure, indeed, to see the stubbornness of an incorrigible nonconformist warmly acclaimed.
Try to become not a man of success, but try rather to become a man of value.
That is simple my friend: because politics is more difficult than physics.
God does not care about our mathematical difficulties. He integrates empirically.
I speak to everyone in the same way, whether he is the garbage man or the president of the university.
As far as I'm concerned I prefer silent vice to ostentatious virtue.
The hardest thing in the world to understand is income taxes.
On quantum theory I use up more brain grease (rough translation of German idiom) than on relativity.
Then I would have felt sorry for the dear Lord. The theory is correct.
If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or objects.
If I can't picture it, I can't understand it.
Even on the most solemn occasions I got away without wearing socks and hid that lack of civilisation in high boots.
Sometimes one pays most for the things one gets for nothing.
I refuse to make money out of my science. My laurel is not for sale like so many bales of cotton.
The great moral teachers of humanity were, in a way, artistic geniuses in the art of living.
Bureaucracy is the death of all sound work.
The state is made for man, not man for the state. And in this respect science resembles the state.
I live in that solitude which is painful in youth, but delicious in the years of maturity.
Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by the individual who can labor in freedom.
Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of Truth and Knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods.
In order to be a perfect member of a flock of sheep, one has to be, foremost, a sheep.
The attempt to combine wisdom and power has only rarely been successful, and then only for a short while.
Man usually avoids attributing cleverness to somebody else—unless it is an enemy.
Joy in looking and comprehending is nature's most beautiful gift.
Politics is a pendulum whose swings between anarchy and tyranny are fueled by perennially rejuvenated illusions.
Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it.
Science is a wonderful thing if one does not have to earn one's living at it.
Who would have thought around 1900 that in fifty years time we would know so much more and understand so much less.
Since others have explained my theory, I can no longer understand it myself.
I believe in one thing—that only a life lived for others is a life worth living.
Philosophy is empty if it isn't based on science. Science discovers, philosophy interprets.
Indeed, it is not intellect, but intuition which advances humanity. Intuition tells man his purpose in this life.
I believe the main task of the spirit is to free man from his ego.
But then, after all, we are all alike, for we are all derived from the monkey.
If I had foreseen Hiroshima and Nagasaki, I would have torn up my formula in 1905.
Be a loner. That gives you time to wonder, to search for the truth. Have holy curiosity. Make your life worth living.
To take those fools in clerical garb seriously is to show them too much honor.
There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is.
It is high time the ideal of success should be replaced with the ideal of service.
Common sense is nothing more than a deposit of prejudices laid down by the mind before you reach eighteen.
Compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.
Two things are infinite: the universe and the human stupidity.
Coincidence is God's way of remaining anonymous.
Contempt prior to investigation is what enslaves a mind to Ignorance.
Evil is the result of what happens when man does not have God's love present in his heart.
If you are out to describe the truth, leave elegance to the tailor.
Two things inspire me to awe: the starry heavens and the moral universe within.
The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education.
The search for truth is more precious than its possession.
Time and space are modes by which we think and not conditions in which we live.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. So is a lot.
Education is that which remains, if one has forgotten everything he learned in school.
The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.
Time is nature's way of keeping everything from happening at once.
Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.
If only I had known, I should have become a watch-maker.
If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.
Nuclear power is a hell of a way to boil water.
If a cluttered desk is the sign of a cluttered mind, what is the significance of a clean desk?
Information is not knowledge. The only source of knowledge is experience.
Einstein relied on Newton, deliberate frauds.
It did not last: the Devil howling 'Ho! Let Einstein be!' restored the status quo.
I like quoting Einstein. Know why? Because nobody dares contradict you.
Einstein explained his theory to me every day, and on my arrival I was fully convinced that he understood it.
His work revolved around three rules which apply to all science, our problems, and times:
