Conservatives have a problem with women. For that matter, all men do.
I think there should be a literacy test and a poll tax for people to vote.
I am emboldened by my looks to say things Republican men wouldn't.
If those kids had been carrying guns they would have gunned down this one gunman. … Don't pray. Learn to use guns.
We were terrified that Jones would settle. It was contrary to our purpose of bringing down the president.
Southerners are truly our warrior class.
That was the theme of the Million Mom March: I don't need a brain — I've got a womb.
The presumption of innocence only means you don't go right to jail.
A cruise missile is more important than Head Start.
There are a lot of bad Republicans; there are no good Democrats.
My only regret with Timothy McVeigh is he did not go to the ''New York Times'' building.
Liberals hate religion because politics is a religion substitute for liberals and they can't stand the competition.
Though Rather is congenitally bad – an admirable heir to Goebbels blush.
Liberals chose Man. Conservatives chose God.
Liberals have a preternatural gift for striking a position on the side of treason.
'Pinch' Sulzberger, the publisher of The ''New York Times'', is alleged to have dyslexia — because he's retarded.
What are the odds that Swift Boat Veterans for Truth?
We'll drive off the side of that bridge when we come to it, Senator Kennedy.
The only standard journalists respect is: Will this story promote the left-wing agenda?
Well, he was a very good rapist. I think that should not be forgotten.
Would that it were so! … That the American military were targeting journalists.
Harriet Miers isn't qualified to play a Supreme Court justice on ''The West Wing'', let alone to be a real one.
We need somebody to put rat poisoning in Justice Stevens's creme brulee. That's just a joke, for you in the media.
I think our motto should be, post-9-11, "raghead talks tough, raghead faces consequences."
You know, OK, I made a few jokes — and they killed 3000 Americans. Fair trade.
You don't want the Republicans in power, does that mean you want a dictatorship, gay boy?
The tolerant liberal suddenly becomes very intolerant when their official religion is challenged.
Liberals have managed to eliminate the idea of manly honor. Instead, all they have is womanly indignation.
I don't know if he's gay. But Al Gore — total fag.
As for catching Osama, it's irrelevant. Things are going swimmingly in Afghanistan.
Democrats cannot conceive of "hate speech" towards Christians because, in their eyes, Christians always deserve it.
Our book is Genesis. Their book is Silent Spring'', the original environmental hoax.
I'm here, I'm not queer, and I'm not going away.
Enjoy most: the prospect of having an impact on the public debate. Irritating liberals is a close second.
I'm a Christian first, and a mean-spirited, bigoted conservative second, and don't you ever forget it.
I don’t care if she knew about this. She ought to be in prison for wearing a hijab.
Ann Coulter has become a legend in her own mind.
Well, less said about ''whom'', the better.
