Misfortune shows those who are not really friends.
My lectures are published and not published; they will be intelligible to those who heard them, and to none beside.
Ἐν πᾶσι γὰρ τοῖς φυσικοῖς ἔνεστί τι θαυμαστόν.
Nature flies from the infinite, for the infinite is unending or imperfect, and Nature ever seeks an end.
That body is heavier than another which, in an equal bulk, moves downward quicker.
Piety requires us to honor truth above our friends.
For the things we have to learn before we can do, we learn by doing.
We must as second best, as people say, take the least of the evils.
Therefore only an utterly senseless person can fail to know that our characters are the result of our conduct.
When people are friends, they have no need of justice, but when they are just, they need friendship in addition.
The best friend is he that, when he wishes a person's good, wishes it for that person's own sake.
Man, when perfected, is the best of animals, but when separated from law and justice, he is the worst of all.
It is of the nature of desire not to be satisfied, and most men live only for the gratification of it.
Again, men in general desire the good, and not merely what their fathers had.
Even when laws have been written down, they ought not always to remain unaltered.
They should rule who are able to rule best.
The good citizen need not of necessity possess the virtue which makes a good man.
Both oligarch and tyrant mistrust the people, and therefore deprive them of their arms.
The basis of a democratic state is liberty.
Law is order, and good law is good order.
The appropriate age for marriage is around eighteen for girls and thirty-seven for men.
It is not easy to determine the nature of music, or why any one should have a knowledge of it.
Knowledge of the fact differs from knowledge of the reason for the fact.
It is simplicity that makes the uneducated more effective than the educated when addressing popular audiences.
A whole is that which has beginning, middle, and end.
Poetry demands a man with a special gift for it, or else one with a touch of madness in him.
Homer has taught all other poets the art of telling lies skillfully.
For the purposes of poetry a convincing impossibility is preferable to an unconvincing possibility.
The roots of education … are bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
Liars … when they speak the truth they are not believed.
To the query, "What is a friend?" his reply was "A single soul dwelling in two bodies."
''Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas.''
It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.
Man is a goal-seeking animal. His life only has meaning if he is reaching out and striving for goals.
We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.
The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal things equal.
There is only one way to avoid criticism: do nothing, say nothing and be nothing.
Aristotle was the first genuine scientist in history. . . . Every scientist is in his debt.
Aristotle forever, but Truth even for longer than that.
I do not agree with Plato, but if anything could make me do so, it would be Aristotle's arguments against him.
''Aristotle: a Chapter from the History of Science''
