That's silly talk... Talk to my wife. She'll tell me I need to learn to just put my socks on the hamper.
You know, my faith is one that admits some doubt.
I'm LeBron, baby. I can play on this level. I got some game.
John Kerry believes in an America where hard work is rewarded.
I cannot swallow whole the view of Lincoln as the Great Emancipator.
Evolution is more grounded in my experience than angels.
One of the prettiest sounds on Earth at sunset.
I believe in the redemptive death and resurrection of Christ.
There was no such thing as Al Qaeda in Iraq, until George Bush and John McCain decided to invade Iraq.
Let me be absolutely clear: Iran is a grave threat.
I am reminded every day of my life, if not by events, then by my wife, that I am not a perfect man.
Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel, and it must remain undivided.
Tim Kaine has a message of fiscal responsibility and generosity of spirit. That kind of message can sell anywhere.
By the way, I've been called worse on the basketball court. Its not a big deal.
It was a creed written into the founding documents that declared the destiny of a nation.
Transparency and the rule of law will be the touchstones of this presidency.
You can't just listen to Rush Limbaugh and get things done.
Don’t shortchange the future, because of fear in the present.
Manmohan Singh is a wise, wonderful man.
If you actually took the number of Muslims Americans, we'd be one of the largest Muslim countries in the world.
As a student of history, I also know civilization's debt to Islam.
Islam has always been a part of America's story.
So I have known Islam on three continents before coming to the region where it was first revealed.
Islam is not part of the problem in combating violent extremism; it is an important part of promoting peace.
For peace to come, it is time for them - and all of us - to live up to our responsibilities.
Islam has a proud tradition of tolerance.
We cannot disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretence of liberalism.
A woman who is denied an education is denied equality.
In ancient times and in our times, Muslim communities have been at the forefront of innovation and education.
All of us must recognise that education and innovation will be the currency of the 21st Century.
We will encourage more Americans to study in Muslim communities.
Guantanamo will be closed no later than one year from now.
Let me just make this point, John...We're not campaigning anymore. The election's over.
Let's try common sense. A novel concept.
It turns out, by the way, that oil rigs today generally don't cause spills. They are technologically very advanced.
The true engine of economic growth will always be companies like Solyndra.
I do not want to see BP nickel and diming these businesses that are having a tough time.
We talk to these folks because they potentially have the best answers, so I know whose ass to kick.
The presidency has a funny way of making a person feel the need to pray.
Gabby called it "Congress on Your Corner" — just an updated version of government of and by and for the people.
If this tragedy prompts reflection and debate, as it should, let's make sure it's worthy of those we have lost.
It is easy to get to a higher number when you are not asking anything difficult from yourself.
I've been left at the altar now a couple of times.
The sequester is not something that I proposed. It's something that Congress has proposed. It will not happen.
When ordinary people have a say in their own future, then your land can’t just be taken away from you.
The terms of peace may be negotiated by political leaders, but the fate of peace is up to each of us.
Putin is slouching…looking like that bored schoolboy in the back of the classroom.
I’m not a particularly ideological person. There’s things, some values I feel passionately about.
We, the people, still believe that enduring security and lasting peace do not require perpetual war.
Our government shouldn’t make promises we cannot keep — but we must keep the promises we’ve already made.
But I come here today, Berlin, to say complacency is not the character of great nations.
Our fates are linked, and we cannot ignore those who are yearning not only for freedom but also prosperity.
We are the first generation to feel the impact of climate change and the last to be able to do anything about it.
No amount of propaganda can make right something that the world knows is wrong.
There is no change without risk, and no progress without sacrifice, and no freedom without solidarity.
But the people of the Baltic nations also knew that freedom needs a foundation of security.
Your experience cautions that progress is neither easy nor quick.
If the world acts together, we can make sure that all of our children enjoy lives of opportunity and dignity.
You have the power to remind us all that human dignity is not just a universal aspiration, but a human right.
We are no longer a Christian nation; we are now a nation of Christians, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists.
I found a solace in nursing a pervasive sense of grievance and animosity against my mother's race.
I will stand with the Muslims should the political winds shift in an ugly direction.
If we keep talking about the economy, we're going to lose.
Unlike some people, I wasn't born with a silver spoon in my mouth.
''Ho detto a Medvedev che Obama ha tutto per andare d'accordo con lui: è giovane, bello e anche abbronzato.''
Translation: Barack Obama being young, handsome and sun-tanned is going to get along with you swimmingly.
I would say .. he's probably the smartest guy ever to become president.
A gift for reading from a teleprompter is not the same as leadership.
"Like many people, I'm sure Obama is an atheist"
I'm going to tell you something: That boy's finger does not need to be on the button.
Here's the formula for Obama's success: "They work, and you eat."
I don't know how you can take a vote out of context. It's a vote.
You are among the two or three most talented people I have ever met in politics.
Barack is one of the smartest people you will ever encounter who will deign to enter this messy thing called politics.
Mr. Obama is proving the truism that the executive branch will use any power it is given and very likely abuse it.
People don't come to Obama for what he's done in the Senate. They come because of what they hope he could be.
He is a community organizer like Jesus was …And now, we’re a community and he can organize us.
Now we have an unknown stealth candidate who went to a madrassas in Indonesia and, in fact, was a Muslim.
Obama is a Marxist in his heart. He's an Afro-Leninist, and I know he's dangerous.
Senator Obama has adopted the position of every liberal interest group in this country.
It would be like Hitler playing golf with Benjamin Netanyahu.
He’s luckier than a dog with two dicks.
We've got a Muslim president who hates farming, hates the military, hates the US, and we hate him!
