Blood alone moves the wheels of history.
Democracy is beautiful in theory; in practice it is a fallacy. You in America will see that some day.
Let us have a dagger between our teeth, a bomb in our hands and an infinite scorn in our hearts.
All within the state, nothing outside the state, nothing against the state.
Speeches made to the people are essential to the arousing of enthusiasm for a war.
I want to make my own life a masterpiece.
This is the epitaph I want on my tomb: "Here lies one of the most intelligent animals who ever appeared on the face of the Earth."
War is to man what motherhood is to a woman. From a philosophical and doctrinal viewpoint, I do not believe in perpetual peace.
What is freedom? There is no such thing as absolute freedom!
Better to live a day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep.
For my part I prefer fifty thousand rifles to five million votes.
The Socialists ask what is our program? Our program is to smash the heads of the Socialists.
Silence is the only answer you should give to the fools. Where ignorance speaks, intelligence should not give advices.
We do not argue with those who disagree with us, we destroy them.
I am making superhuman efforts to educate this people. When they have learnt to obey, they will believe what I tell them.
Fascism should more properly be called corporatism, since it is the merger of state and corporate power.
If I advance; follow me! If I retreat; kill me! If I die; avenge me!
The best blood will at some time get into a fool or a mosquito.
He never killed anyone, he sent people on holiday to confine them.
To Benito Mussolini, from an old man who greets in the ruler, the ''Hero of Culture''.
Unfortunately, I am no superman like Mussolini.
What a waste that we lost Mussolini. He is a first-rate man who would have led our party to power in Italy.
Neither liberal regime and later to transform their governments into dictatorships.
''You're the top!  You're the Great Houdini!  You're the top!  You are Mussolini!''
I don't mind telling you in confidence that I am keeping in fairly close touch with that admirable Italian gentleman.
