Ambition has its disappointments to sour us, but never the good fortune to satisfy us.
A great Empire, like a great Cake, is most easily diminished at the Edges.
He has paid dear, very dear, for his whistle.
Do not anticipate trouble, or worry about what may never happen. Keep in the sunlight.
Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God.
Let all Men know thee, but no man know thee thoroughly: Men freely ford that see the shallows.
Love your Enemies, for they tell you your Faults.
The Way to ſee by ''Faith'' is to ſhut the Eye of ''Reaſon'': The Morning Daylight appears plainer when you put out your Candle.
If you desire many things, many things will seem but a few.
From a Child I was fond of Reading, and all the little Money that came into my Hands was ever laid out in Books. Part I, p. 9
A lady asked Dr. Franklin Well Doctor what have we got a republic or a monarchy. A republic replied the Doctor if you can keep it.
We are a kind of posterity in respect to them.
Idleness and Pride Tax with a heavier Hand than Kings and Parliaments; If we can get rid of the former we may easily bear the Latter.
In 200 years will people remember us as traitors or heros? That is the question we must ask.
You and I were long friends: you are now my enemy, and I am yours.
There never was a good war or a bad peace.
Let me add, that only a virtuous people are capable of freedom. As nations become corrupt and vicious, they have more need of masters.
We must, indeed, all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately.
When the people find that they can vote themselves money, that will herald the end of the republic.
Treason is a charge invented by winners as an excuse for hanging the losers.
Freedom is not a gift bestowed upon us by other men, but a right that belongs to us by the laws of God and nature.
Democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on what to have for lunch. Liberty is a well-armed lamb contesting the vote.
Lighthouses are more useful than churches.
God made beer because he loves us and wants us to be happy.
A man wrapped up in himself makes a very small bundle.
The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results.
Each man has two countries, I think: His own, and France.
Your argument is sound, nothing but sound.
To find out a girl's faults, praise her to her girl friends.
We do not quit playing because we grow old, we grow old because we quit playing.
Any fool can criticize, condemn, and complain — and most fools do.
''Eripuit Coelo fulmen, mox Sceptra Tyrannis.''
