It's not manufacturers trying to rip anybody off or anything like that. There's nobody getting rich writing software that I know of.
Instead of buying airplanes and playing around like some of our competitors, we've rolled almost everything back into the company.
The next generation of interesting software will be done on the Macintosh, not the IBM PC.
I believe OS/2 is destined to be the most important operating system, and possibly program, of all time.
There's only one trick in software, and that is using a piece of software that's already been written.
Just in terms of allocation of time resources, religion is not very efficient. There's a lot more I could be doing on a Sunday morning.
It's possible, you can never know, that the universe exists only for me. If so, it's sure going well for me, I must admit.
Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.
Microsoft has had clear competitors in the past. It’s a good thing we have museums to document that.
Spam will be a thing of the past in two years' time.
Does the e-mail say it's about 'enlargement' — that might be spam.
If you show people the problems and you show people the solutions they will be moved to act.
Understand that this is the last physical format there will ever be.
Any operating system without a browser is going to be fucking out of business. Should we improve our product, or go out of business?
I wish I wasn't … There's nothing good that comes out of that. You get more visibility as a result of it.
Stolen's a strong word. It's copyrighted content that the owner wasn't paid for. So yes.
I'm a big believer that as much as possible, and there's obviously political limitations, freedom of migration is a good thing.
Robots will play an important role in providing physical assistance and even companionship for the elderly.
Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.
The obvious mathematical breakthrough would be development of an easy way to factor large prime numbers.
I see little commercial potential for the internet for the next 10 years.
Intellectual property has the shelf life of a banana.
Life is not fair. Get used to it... Be nice to nerds. Chances are you'll end up working for one.
Bill Gates is a very rich man today … and do you want to know why? The answer is one word: versions.
There never was a chip, it is said, that Bill Gates couldn't slow down with a new batch of features.
Well, it seems to me that he did have an education to get there. It happened to be mine, not his.
He is divisive. He is manipulative. He is a user. He has taken much from me and the industry.
Probably the most dangerous and powerful industrialist of our age.
Bill Gates is a monocle and a Persian cat away from being the villain in a James Bond movie.
There is nothing nice about Steve Jobs and nothing evil about Bill Gates. Gates is a good man.
Gates apparently has made more money than anyone else his age, ever, in any business.
