I end tonight where it all began for me: I still believe in a place called Hope.
After all the bloodshed of this century, we know it is easy to say ‘never again,’ but much harder to make it so.
Promising too much can be as cruel as caring too little.
The road to tyranny, we must never forget, begins with the destruction of the truth.
No one wants to get this matter behind us more than I do—except maybe all the rest of the American people.
We want to live forever, and we're getting there.
You know, if I were a single man, I might ask that mummy out. That's a good-looking mummy.
Yesterday is yesterday. If we try to recapture it, we will only lose tomorrow.
History has shown us, that you can't allow the mass extermination of people, and just sit by and watch it happen.
Shakespeare wrote, Einstein thought, Ataturk built.
I felt like a pickle stepping into history.
Strength and wisdom are not opposing values.
What are the needs of the world? What can I do that won't be done if I don't do it?
We need a steady stream of cash. The American people have been uncommonly generous.
Iraq is not Vietnam, we have a government that has a support of the majority of the people.
Private citizens have more power to do public good and solve common problems than ever before in human history.
I have met all the most gifted people in our generation and you're the best.
The world has always been more impressed by the power of our America's example than by the example of our power.
There's never a perfect bipartisan bill in the eyes of a partisan.
It’s a great thing about not being office—you can just say whatever you want.
A few years ago, this guy would have been getting us coffee.
Someone should tell him that part of the art of politics is smiling when you feel like you’re swallowing a turd.
This guy's a scumbag. That's why I'm after him.
Clinton’s an unusually good liar. Unusually good.
The idea of Bill Clinton back in the White House with nothing to do is something I just can't imagine.
