a poem is a naked person . . . some people say that I am a poet
Keep a good head and always carry a light bulb.
I think of a hero as someone who understands the degree of responsibility that comes with his freedom.
That ear - I mean, Jesus, he's got to will that to the Smithsonian.
We may not be able to defeat these swine, but we don't have to join them.
I put one on the turntable and when the needle dropped, I was stunned — didn't know whether I was stoned or straight.
Morality has nothing in common with politics.
You can't be wise and in love at the same time.
I don't call myself a poet, because I don't like the word.
I don't believe you! You're a liar! … Play it fucking loud!
I read ''On the Road'' in maybe 1959. It changed my life like it changed everyone else's.
You sound like a hillbilly; We want folk singers here.
A lot of people don't have much food on their table But they got a lot of forks and knives And they gotta cut something
Hey, hey, Woody Guthrie, I wrote you a song, 'bout a funny ol' world that's a-comin' along
Seems sick an' it's hungry, it's tired an' it's torn, it looks like it's a-dyin' an' it's hardly been born.
Here's to Cisco an' Sonny an' Lead Belly too, an' to all the good people that traveled with you.
here's to the hearts an' the hands of the men, that come with the dust and are gone with the wind.
Yes, and how many years can a mountain exist before it is washed to the sea?
How many times must a man look up before he can see the sky?
Yes, and how many deaths will it take till he knows that too many people have died?
The answer, my friend, is blowin' in the wind.
All the money you made will never buy back your soul.
You ain't worth the blood that runs in your veins.
There is one thing I know though I'm younger than you Even Jesus would not forgive what you do
I saw a newborn baby with wild wolves all around it.
I saw ten thousand talkers whose tongues were all broken.
I heard the roar of a wave that could drown the whole world.
I met a white man who walked a black dog.
But I’ll know my song well before I start singin’.
I once loved a woman, a child I am told I gave her my heart but she wanted my soul.
Goodbye is too good a word, girl  So I'll just say fare thee well.
I got into the driver's seat and drove down 42nd Street in my Cadillac. Good car to drive after a war.
If there's anyone who knows, is there anyone who cares?
You never ask questions When God's on your side
You don't count the dead When God's on your side
The words fill my head, and fall to the floor, that if God's on our side, he'll stop the next war.
But if the arrow is straight, And the point is slick, It can pierce through dust no matter how thick.
All I really want to do is, baby, be friends with you.
I ain't looking for you to feel like me, see like me, or be like me.
Ah, but I was so much older then, I'm younger than that now.
I had to say something to strike him very weird so I yelled out "I like Fidel Castro and his beard."
You don't need a weather man To know which way the wind blows
Get jailed, jump bail Join the army, if you fail
Don't follow leaders Watch the parkin' meters
Twenty years of schoolin' And they put you on the day shift
The pump don't work 'Cause the vandals took the handles
She's got everything she needs, she's an artist, she don't look back.
She could take the dark out the nighttime and paint the daytime black.
But you will wind up peeking through her keyhole down upon your knees.
I ain't gonna work on Maggie's farm no more.
There's no success like failure, and failure's no success at all.
She knows too much to argue or to judge.
Don't ask me nothin' about nothin'. I just might tell you the truth.
The ancient empty street's too dead for dreaming.
Oh, to dance beneath the diamond sky with one hand waving free.
It's not aimed at anyone, it's just escapin' on the run
And if you hear vague traces of skipping reels of rhyme...
Take me disappearing, through the smoke rings of my mind, down the foggy ruins of time...
With all memory and fate driven deep beneath the waves, let me forget about today until tomorrow.
Let me forget about today until tomorrow.
All and all can only fall with a crushing but meaningless blow.
And there are no truths outside the Gates of Eden.
Of war and peace the truth just twist, its curfew gull it glides.
Money doesn't talk, it swears. Obscenity, who really cares? Propaganda all is phony.
Even the president of the United States sometimes must have to stand naked.
It is not he or she or them or it that you belong to.
While others say don't hate nothing at all except hatred
Although the masters make the rules for the wise men and the fools, I got nothing, Ma, to live up to.
Yonder stands your orphan with his gun, crying like a fire in the sun.
Your lover who just walked out the door, has taken all his blankets from your floor.
You got a lotta nerve to say you are my friend. When I was down, you just stood there grinning.
Do you take me for such a fool to think I'd make contact with one that tries to hide what he don't know to begin with.
I wish that for just one time you could stand inside my shoes. You'd know what a drag it is to see you.
How does it feel? To be on your own, with no direction home, like a complete unknown, like a rolling stone?
You never turned around to see the frowns, on the jugglers and the clowns when they all did, tricks for you.
Princess on the steeple and all the pretty people, they're drinkin', thinkin' that they got it made
And if I don't make it, you know my baby will.
Well, I wanna be your lover, baby, I don't wanna be your boss.
And you say, Oh my God, am I here all alone?
And something is happening here, but you don't know what it is, do you Mr. Jones?
Here's your throat back, thanks for the loan.
You put your eyes in your pockets and your nose on the ground.
They already expect you to just give a check to tax-deductible charity organization.
Now at midnight all the agents, and the superhuman crew, come out and round up everyone, that knows more then they do.
But I would not feel so all alone, everybody must get stoned!
They’ll stone ya and then they’ll say, “good luck”
Somebody got lucky, but it was an accident.
Oh Mama, can this really be the end? To be stuck inside of Mobile with the Memphis blues again?
Your debutante knows what you need, but I know what you want.
You see, you're just like me. I hope you're satisfied.
Ain't it just like the night to play tricks when you're trying to be so quiet.
We sit here stranded, though we're all doin' our best to deny it.
And Louise holds a handful of rain, tempting you to defy it.
He’s sure got a lotta gall to be so useless and all
The ghost of 'lectricity howls in the bones of her face.
Name me someone that's not a parasite and I'll go out and say a prayer for him.
But these visions of Johanna, they make it all seem so cruel.
But to live outside the law, you must be honest.
Lay, lady, lay. Lay across my big, brass bed.
Whatever colors you have in your mind. I'll show them to you and you'll see them shine.
His clothes are dirty, but his hands are clean, and you're the best thing that he's ever seen.
Stay, lady, stay. Stay while the night is still ahead.
Ev'rybody's in despair,  Ev'ry girl and boy  But when Quinn the Eskimo gets here,  Ev'rybody's gonna jump for joy.
Come all without, come all within,  You'll not see nothing like the mighty Quinn.
I like to do just like the rest,  I like my sugar sweet, but guarding fumes and making haste,  it ain't my cup of meat.
A cat's meow and a cow's moo,  I can recite 'em all,  just tell me where it hurts you, honey, 
May you build a ladder to the stars and climb on every rung. May your song always be sung, May you stay forever young.
I paid the price of solitude but at least I'm out of debt.
Lord knows I've paid some dues gettin' through...
I helped her out of a jam, I guess, but I used a little too much force...
The only thing I knew how to do was to keep on keepin' on like a bird that flew...
All the people we used to know, they're an illusion to me now...
Don't know how it all got started, I don't know what they do with their lives...
We always did feel the same, we just saw it from a different point of view...
But all the while I was alone  The past was close behind,  I seen a lot of women  But she never escaped my mind, 
You're an idiot, babe. It's a wonder that you still know how to breathe.
Visions of your chestnut mare shoot through my head and are makin' me see stars.
I waited for you on the running boards, near the cypress trees, while the springtime turned slowly into autumn.
It was gravity which pulled us in and destiny which broke us apart
You tamed the lion in my cage but it just wasn't enough to change my heart
You'll never know the hurt I suffer, nor the pain I rise above, and I'll never know the same about you...
I kiss good-bye the howling beast on the borderline which separated you from me.
A change in the weather is known to be extreme; but what's the sense in changing horses in mid-stream?
Time is a jetplane — it moves too fast. Oh but what a shame that all we've shared can't last...
Love is so simple, to quote a phrase; you've known it all the time, I'm learnin' it these days.
I know where I can find you — in somebody's room. It's the price I have to pay, you're a big girl all the way.
Beauty walks a razor's edge, someday I'll make it mine.
Try imagining a place where it's always safe and warm...
"Come in", she said, "I'll give you shelter from the storm."
I always have respected her for doin' what she did and gettin' free
Sundown yellow moon I replay the past  I know every scene by heart they all went by so fast
If she's passing back this way I'm not that hard to find  Tell her she can look me up if she's got the time.
Wheels on fire, rolling down the road, best notify my next of kin, this wheel shall explode!
Take care of all your memories. said my friend Mick, For you cannot relive them.
Couldn't help but make me feel ashamed to live in a land, where justice is a game.
There's lots of pretty girls in Mozambique.
It may be the Devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody.
You may call me Bobby; you may call me Zimmy...
The enemy is subtle. How be it we're deceived? When the truth's in our hearts and we still don't believe.
My so-called friends have fallen under a spell: they look me squarely in the eye and say, "Well; all is well."
They'd like to drive me from this town; they don't want me around, 'cause I believe in you.
I believe in you even on the morning after.
Have they counted the cost it'll take to bring down all the earthly principles they're gonna have to abandon?
Fools glorify themselves, trying to manipulate Satan.
The enemy I see wears a cloak of decency.
They talk about a life of brotherly love? Show me someone who knows how to live it.
It sure do bother me to see my loved ones turning into puppets.
(Alternate version.) A brave man will kill you with a sword, a coward with a kiss.
Don't wanna judge nobody — don't wanna be judged.
You got some big dreams, baby, but in order to dream you gotta still be asleep.
You got innocent men in jail, your insane asylums are filled.
Do you ever wonder just what God requires? You think he's just an errand boy to satisfy your wandering desires.
They tell you "Time is money," as if your life was worth its weight in gold.
When you gonna wake up and strengthen the things that remain?
Truth is an arrow, and the gate is narrow that it passes through.
I am hanging in the balance of the reality of man. Like every sparrow falling, like every grain of sand.
Freedom just around the corner for you, but with truth so far off, what good will it do?
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread, both of their futures so full of dread.
Shedding off one more layer of skin, keeping one step ahead of the persecutor within.
You go to Sodom and Gomorrah, but what do you care? Ain't nobody there would want to marry your sister.
You look into the fiery furnace, see the rich man without any name.
The book of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the law of the jungle and the sea are your only teachers.
The rifleman's stalking the sick and the lame; preacherman seeks the same. Who'll get there first is uncertain.
Just how much abuse will you be able to take? Well, there's no way to tell by the first kiss.
They say in your father's house there's many mansions; each one of 'em got a fireproof floor.
They say that patriotism is the last refuge to which a scoundrel clings.
Steal a little and they throw you in jail; steal a lot and they make you king.
There's only one step down from here, baby. It's called the Land of Permanent Bliss.
Sometimes Satan comes as a man of peace.
Nobody sees through him — no, not even the chief of police.
He could be standing next to you, the person that you notice least.
He's following a star, the same one that the three men followed east.
Some one else is speaking with my mouth, but I'm listening only to my heart.
Capitalism is above the law; it's said it don't count 'less it sells.
It's sundown on the union that was made in the USA. Sure was a good idea till greed got in the way.
Democracy don't rule the world; you'd better get that in your head. This world is ruled by violence.
Yesterday's just a memory; tomorrow's never what it's supposed to be.
Man thinks 'cause he rules the earth, he can do with it as he please. And if things don't change soon, he will.
For man has invented his doom; first step was touching the moon.
Man is opposed to fair play: he wants it all, and he wants it his way.
What looks large from a distance, close up ain't never that big.
Oh, time is short and the days are sweet and passion rules the arrow that flies.
If you want somebody you can trust, trust yourself.
I've been deceived by the clown inside of me. I thought that he was righteous but he's vain.
My patron saint is a-fighting with a ghost. He's always off somewhere when I need him most.
Let me feel your love one more time before I abandon it.
I was just too stubborn to ever be governed by enforced insanity.
If I thought about it, I never would have done it, I guess I would have let it slide.
The old Rounder in the iron mask slipped me the master key, somebody had to unlock your heart, he said it was up to me.
It frightens me the awful truth of how sweet life can be.
Somebody's got to cry some tears, I guess it must be up to me.
I can't believe we've lived so long and are still so far apart.
I know she ain't you, but she's here, and she's got that dark rhythm in her soul.
I didn't know whether to duck or to run, so I ran.
When I saw you break down in front of the judge and cry real tears, it was the best damn thing I saw anybody do.
I've always been the kind of person who doesn't like to trespass, but sometimes you just find yourself over the line.
The only thing we knew for sure about Henry Porter was that his name wasn't Henry Porter.
Strange how people who suffer together have stronger connections than those who are most content.
People don't do what they believe in; they just do what's most convenient, then they repent.
Jan had told him many times "it was you to me who taught: in Jersey anything's legal as long as you don't get caught"
They'll kick you when you're up and knock you when you're down.
Your mind is your temple, keep it beautiful and free. Don't let an egg get laid in it by something you can't see.
Let me die in my footsteps before I go under the ground.
I'd throw all the guns and the tanks in the sea, for they are mistakes of a past history.
The whole world's a bottle, And life's but a dram, When the bottle gets empty, It sure ain't worth a damn.
When you cease to exist, then who will you blame?
I'm sick of love but I'm in the thick of it.
It's not dark yet, but it's getting there...
Behind every beautiful thing there's been some kind of pain
Feel as though my soul has turned into steel. I've still got the scars that the sun didn't heal.
Last night I danced with a stranger, but she just reminded me you were the one.
I'll eat when I'm hungry, drink when I'm dry
People are crazy and times are strange I'm locked in tight, I'm out of range,  I used to care, but things have changed.
I've been trying to get as far away from myself as I can
I hurt easy, I just don't show it, you can hurt someone and not even know it
All the truth in the world adds up to one big lie
If the Bible is right the world will explode
Well I tried my best to be just like I am, but everybody wants you to be just like them
I'm sittin' on my watch so I can be on time.
The future to me is already a thing of the past.
My clothes are wet, tight on my skin/but not as tight as the corner I painted myself in.
You can always come back, but you can't come back all the way.
I was walking through the leaves Falling from the trees. Feelin' like a stranger nobody sees.
So many things that we never will undo I know you're sorry, I'm sorry too.
Drownin' in the poison, got not future got no past.
But my heart is not weary; it's light and it's free I've got nothing but affection for those who've sailed with me.
Politician's got on his jogging shoes, he must be running for office, got no time to lose
Gonna forget about myself for a while, gonna go out and see what others need.
Gonna get me an army, some tough sons o' bitches I recruit my army from the orphanages.
I sucked the milk out of a thousand cows.
If I catch my opponents ever sleepin', I'll just slaughter 'em where they lie.
