In my opinion, the King's Gambit is busted. It loses by force.
White can always play differently, in which case he merely loses differently.
They can't concentrate, they don't have stamina, and they aren't creative. They are all fish.
I am the best player in the world, and I am here to prove it.
I'm not afraid of Spassky. The world knows I'm the best. You don't need a match to prove it.
I would rather be free in my mind, and be locked up in a prison cell, than to be a coward and not be able to say what I want.
The Jews have been hardened against Christ, against decency for thousands of years... They're gonna have to be annihilated, Eugene.
They are subhuman. They are the scum of the Earth. When you talk about Jews, you're scraping the bottom of the barrel of humanity.
You know I'm finished with the old chess because it's all just a lot of book and memorization you know.
I grew up with the concept of freedom of speech. So I'm too old, it's too late for me to adjust to the new world, the new world order.
I don't like American girls. They're very conceited, you know. In Europe they're more pleasant.
I read a book lately by Nietzsche and he says religion is just to dull the senses of the people. I agree.
I'm not as soft or as generous a person as I would be if the world hadn't changed me.
I don't keep any close friends. I don't keep any secrets. I don't need friends. I just tell everybody everything, that's all.
Tactics flow from a positionally superior game.
I have never opened with the QP – on principle.
Our mind is all we've got. Not that it won't lead us astray sometimes, but we still have to analyze things out within ourselves.
Most people are sheep, and they need the support of others.
What I admired most about him was his ability to make what was in fact so difficult look easy to us. I try to emulate him.
Fischer’s beautiful chess and his immortal games will stand forever as a central pillar in the history of our game.
Bobby is the most misunderstood, misquoted celebrity walking the face of the earth.
It is difficult to play against Einstein’s theory.
