What a city, what a night, what a crowd, what a bomb, what a mistake, what a wanker you have for a President.
What are the ideas right now worth betraying? What are the lies we tell ourselves now?
The world is more malleable than you think and it's waiting for you to hammer it into shape.
I will try to keep my homily brief. But be warned — I'm Irish.
I wish you were here I wish you were here To see what I could see To hear And I wish you were here
There's many lost but,tell me,who has won?
How long, how long must we sing this song?
I'll show you a place,high on the desert plain.Where the streets have no name
Our Love has slowly slipped away,Our Love has seen its better day
I have spoke with the tongue of Angels,I have held the hand of The Devil.It was warm in the night,I was cold as a stone
I believe in the Kingdom come,then all the colours will bleed into one.Bleed into one.But yes I'm still running
See the stone set in your eyes,see the thorn twist in your side.I wait for you
The Glass is cut,The Bottle run dry.Our love runs cold in the caverns of the night
We're wounded by fear,injured in doubt.I can lose myself,You I can't live without
From the stinging rain comes a Rattle and hum.See the face of fear running scared in the valley below
See them burning crosses,see the flames get higher and higher
I don't believe in rape.But everytime She passes by,wild thoughts escape
I don't believe the Devil,I don't believe his book,but the truth is not the same without the lies he made up.
I Don't believe in Riches but You should see Where I live"
You say You'll give Me eyes in a moon of Blindness,a River in a time of dryness.
Don't believe them when they tell me there ain't no cure.The Rich stay healthy,the Sick stay poor
Don't believe in Goldman,His type like a curse.Instant Karma's going to get him if I don't get him first
Don't believe in the 60's,the Golden age of Pop.You glorify the past,when the Future dries up
You say You want Diamonds on a Ring of Gold,Your Story to remain untold.Your Lovee not to go Cold
It's alright, it's alright, it's alright She moves in mysterious ways.
A man will rise,a man will fall.From the shear face of love like a fly from the wall
We're one but we're not the same We get to carry each other, carry each other
Every Artist is a Cannibal,every Poet is a Thief.All kill for inspiration and sing about their grief
Its no secret that a Conscience can sometimes be a Pest, Its no Secret that Ambition bites the Nails of Success
And if You look,You look through Me.And when You talk,You talk at Me.And when I touch You,You don't feel anything
And if You listen,I can call.And if You jump,You just might fall.And if You shout,I'll only hear You
There was a badness that had its way. But love wasn't lost. Love will have its day.
It's a beautiful day...  Don't let it get away
What you don't have you don't need it now  What you don't know you can feel it somehow
Love is not the easy thing...  The only baggage you can bring  Is all that you can't leave behind.
Walk on, walk on What you got they can't steal it No they can't even feel it Walk on, walk on... Stay safe tonight.
Walk on, walk on What you've got they can't deny it Can't sell it, can't buy it Walk on, walk on Stay safe tonight.
And I know it aches And your heart it breaks And you can only take so much
Sometimes you can't make it.  The best you can do is to fake it.  Sometimes you can't make it on your own.
And though your soul it can't be bought, your mind can wander. I can feel your love teaching me how, how to kneel.
I could never take a chance of losing love to find romance.
The songs are in your eyes.  I see them when you smile.
There is no failure here sweetheart, just when you quit.
Of science and the human heart, there is no limit.
You heard me in my tune when I just heard confusion.
An intellecutal tortoise racing with your bullet train.
Where you live should not decide whether you live or whether you die.
Well, the heart that hurts is a heart that beats.
It's not a hill it's a mountain, as you start out the climb
We're gonna make it all the way to the light,  but I know i'll go crazy if I don't go crazy tonight
God is love and love is evolution's best day
This shitty world sometimes produces a rose  The scent of it lingers and then it just goes
He's a poet. He's a philosopher. And last night, I think I saw him walking on water.
