When you're talking about fighting, as it is, with no rules, well then, baby you'd better train every part of your body!
All types of knowledge, ultimately mean self knowledge.
Man, the living creature, the creating individual, is always more important than any established style or system.
Use only that which works, and take it from any place you can find it.
Do not deny the classical approach, simply as a reaction, or you will have created another pattern and trapped yourself there.
To contemplate a thing implies maintaining oneself OUTSIDE it, resolved to keep a distance between it and ourselves.
Running water never grows stale. So you just have to 'keep on flowing.'
If one loves, one need not have an ideology of love.
Neither. I think of myself as a human being.
Even today, I dare not say that I have reached a state of achievement. I'm still learning, for learning is boundless.
The man who is really serious, with the urge to find out what truth is, has no style at all. He lives only in what is.
Take inventory of everyone with whom you have contact.
Faith is a state of mind that can be conditioned through self-discipline. Faith will accomplish.
Faith makes it possible to achieve that which man's mind can conceive and believe.
Possession of anything begins in the mind.
Make at least one definite move daily toward your goal.
The ''intangible'' represents the real power of the universe. It is the seed of the tangible.
The spirit of the individual is determined by his dominating thought habits.
Life is wide, limitless. There is no border, no frontier.
The meaning of life is that it is to be ''lived'', and it is not to be traded and conceptualized and squeezed into a pattern of systems.
The aphorism "as a man thinketh in his heart so is he" contains the secret of life.
''Meaning is found in relationship.'' — Meaning is the relationship of the foreground figure to the background.
Life itself is your teacher, and you are in a state of constant learning.
The primary reality is not what I think, but that I live, for those also live who do not think.
''The timeless moment.'' — The "moment" has no yesterday or tomorrow. It is not the result of thought and therefore has no time.
Concentration is the ROOT of all the higher abilities in man.
What IS is more important than WHAT SHOULD BE. To many people are looking at "what is" from a position of thinking "what should be."
''Conditioning obstructs our view of reality.'' — We do not see IT in its suchness because of our indoctrination, crooked and twisted.
True thusness is without defiling thought; it cannot be known through conception and thought.
''Balance your thoughts with action.'' — If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done.
Knowledge will give you power, but character respect.
What you HABITUALLY THINK largely determines what you will ultimately become.
''The change is from inner to outer.'' — We start by dissolving our attitude not by altering outer conditions.
A goal is not always meant to be reached, it often serves simply as something to aim at.
''Don't fear failure.'' — Not failure, but low aim, is the crime. In great attempts it is glorious even to fail.
In a dictionary, you say "greatest", you say "Bruce Lee", that´s the way it is. He is second to no one.
If Bruce Lee wasn't the greatest martial artist of all time, then certainly he is the number one candidate. 
I remember many times my father (Ed Parker) talking about, pound for pound, Lee was the best martial artist, he´d ever seen.
Bruce Lee is my Idol. I need to learn some techniques of Bruce Lee, especially the quickness of his hands and legs.
His martial art skills made Lee arguably the greatest martial artist of his time — or any other.
