This music is forever for me. It's the stage thing, that rush moment that you live for. It never lasts, but that's what you live for.
Music was my way of keeping people from looking through and around me. I wanted the heavies to know I was around.
We're here to re-dedicate you to The Power, The Passion, The Mystery, and The Ministry of Rock and Roll.
In the third grade a nun stuffed me in a garbage can under her desk because she said that’s where I belonged.
There ain't a note that I play on stage that can’t be traced back directly to my mother and father.
The first day I can remember looking into a mirror and being able to stand what I saw was the day I had a guitar in my hand.
You ride in a limousine the first time, it’s a big thrill but after that it’s just a stupid car.
And your strength is devastating in the face of all these odds. Remember how I kept you waiting when it was my turn to be the god.
Rosalita jump a little lighter. Senorita come sit by my fire. I just want to be your love, ain't no lie. Rosalita you're my stone desire.
Poor man wanna be rich; Rich man wanna be king. And a king ain't satisfied Till he rules everything.
For the ones who had a notion, A notion deep inside, That it ain't no sin to be glad you're alive.
Well let there be sunlight, let there be rain. Let the brokenhearted love again. Sherry we can run with our arms open before the tide
I was gonna be your Romeo you were gonna be my Juliet. These days you don't wait on Romeo's, You wait on that welfare check.
I can't say that I'm sorry for the things that we done; At least for a little while sir me and her we had us some fun.
I catch him when he's strayin' like any brother would. Man turns his back on his family well he just ain't no good.
Spare parts And broken hearts Keep the world turnin' around.
Now you play the loving woman; I'll play the faithful man. But just don't look too close into the palm of my hand.
Tonight our bed is cold; I'm lost in the darkness of our love. God have mercy on the man Who doubts what he's sure of.
May your strength give us strength. May your faith give us faith. May your hope give us hope. May your love give us love.
Come on up for the rising. Come on up, lay your hands in mine. Come on up for the rising. Come on up for the rising tonight.
The wise men were all fools, what to do?
Here everybody has a neighbor, Everybody has a friend. Everybody has a reason to begin again.
When they built you brother, they turned this dust to gold. When they built you brother, they broke the mold.
I've seen strong hearts give way To the burdens of the day, To the weary hands of time Where fortune is not kind.
I'm working on a dream, Though trouble can feel like it's here to stay. I'm working on a dream; Our love will chase the trouble away.
The reason I’m running for president is because I can’t be Bruce Springsteen.
