We live in a society exquisitely dependent on science and technology, in which hardly anyone knows anything about science and technology.
Imagination will often carry us to worlds that never were. But without it we go nowhere.
We are like butterflies who flutter for a day and think it's forever.
The fossil record implies trial and error, an inability to anticipate the future, features inconsistent with an efficient Great Designer.
It is all a matter of time scale. An event that would be unthinkable in a hundred years may be inevitable in a hundred million.
With insufficient data it is easy to go wrong.
Human beings have a demonstrated talent for self-deception when their emotions are stirred.
For a long time the human instinct to understand was thwarted by facile religious explanations.
Astronomically, the U. S. S. R. and the United States are the same place.
I have...a terrible need...shall I say the word?...of religion. Then I go out at night and paint the stars.
If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe.
A googolplex is precisely as far from infinity as is the number 1... no matter what number you have in mind, infinity is larger still.
The universe seems neither benign nor hostile, merely indifferent to the concerns of such puny creatures as we are.
Other things being equal, it is better to be smart than to be stupid.
If we like them, they’re terrorists. In the unlikely case we can’t make up our minds, they’re temporarily only guerrillas.
If the press descended, the science would surely suffer.
It’s hard to kill a creature once it lets you see its consciousness.
Jingoistic rhetoric and puerile self-congratulatory nationalism.
Many harebrained interpretations were also widely available, especially in weekly newspapers.
A celibate clergy is an especially good idea, because it tends to suppress any hereditary propensity toward fanaticism.
The chiliasts made an atheist out of me.
“Do you understand what’s going on?” “Not at all,” he shouted back. “I can almost prove this can’t be happening.”
Humans are very good at dreaming, although you’d never know it from your television.
In the long run, the aggressive civilizations destroy themselves, almost always. It’s their nature. They can’t help it.
That it will never come again Is what makes life so sweet.
For small creatures such as we the vastness is bearable only through love.
The sky calls to us. If we do not destroy ourselves, we will one day venture to the stars.
In the vastness of the Cosmos there must be other civilizations far older and more advanced than ours.
If we crave some cosmic purpose, then let us find ourselves a worthy goal.
Advances in medicine and agriculture have saved vastly more lives than have been lost in all the wars in history.
For me, it is far better to grasp the Universe as it really is than to persist in delusion, however satisfying and reassuring.
Humans may crave absolute absolute certainty will always elude us.
Superstition is marked not by its pretension to a body of knowledge but by its method of seeking truth.
I stress that the universe is made mostly of nothing, that something is the exception.
If we seek... nature, then love can be informed by truth instead of being based on ignorance or self-deception.
Science is, at least in part, informed worship.
Evolving before our eyes has been a God of the Gaps; that is, whatever it is we cannot explain lately is attributed to God.
We find a set of data that strongly implies the presence of complex organic molecules in the outer solar system.
Carbonaceous meteorites that fall to the Earth... have several percent to as much as 10 percent of complex organic matter in them.
This is Phobos... Its mean density is known, and it is consistent with organic matter. Deimos... same story.
If there's nothing in here but atoms, does that make us less or does that make matter more?
If we are alone in the Universe, it sure seems like an awful waste of space.
Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
If it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth.
You can’t convince a believer of anything; for their belief is not based on evidence, it’s based on a deep seated need to believe.
