To conceal anything from those to whom I am attached, is not in my nature. I can never close my lips where I have opened my heart.
O let us love our occupations, Bless the squire and his relations, Live upon our daily rations, And always know our proper stations.
It was a good thing to have a couple of thousand people all rigid and frozen together, in the palm of one's hand.
Resisting the slow touch of a frozen finger tracing out my spine.
The dignity of his office is never impaired by the absence of efforts on his part to maintain it.
I used to sit, think, think, thinking, till I felt as lonesome as a kitten in a wash–house copper with the lid on.
The civility which money will purchase, is rarely extended to those who have none.
Grief never mended no broken bones, and as good people’s wery scarce, what I says is, make the most on ’em.
Reflect upon your present blessings — of which every man has many — not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some.
Fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship; and pass the rosy wine.
In love of home, the love of country has its rise.
That vague kind of penitence which holidays awaken next morning.
If there were no bad people, there would be no good lawyers.
He’s tough, ma’am,—tough is J. B.; tough and devilish sly.
"I want to know what it says," he answered, looking steadily in her face. "The sea Floy, what is it that it keeps on saying?"
The bearings of this observation lays in the application on it.
If you could see my legs when I take my boots off, you'd form some idea of what unrequited affection is.
…vices are sometimes only virtues carried to excess!
It is said that the children of the very poor are not brought up, but dragged up.
I only ask to be free. The butterflies are free. Mankind will surely not deny to Harold Skimpole what it concedes to the butterflies!
Mr. Chadband is a large yellow man, with a fat smile, and a general appearance of having a good deal of train oil in his system.
'Don't you be afraid of hurting the boy,' he says.
It’s my old girl that advises. She has the head. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained.
It is a melancholy truth that even great men have their poor relations.
The one great principle of the English law is, to make business for itself.
Your sex have such a surprising animosity against one another when you do differ.
There is a wisdom of the Head, and … there is a wisdom of the Heart.
Once a gentleman, and always a gentleman.
Ask no questions, and you'll be told no lies.
I had been to see ''Macbeth'' at the theatre a night or two before and she reminded me of the faces rising out of the witches' cauldron.
My guiding star always is, Get hold of portable property.
Throughout life, our worst weaknesses and meannesses are usually committed for the sake of the people we most despise.
Pip, dear old chap, life is made of ever so many partings welded together...
Take nothing on its looks; take everything on evidence. There's no better rule.
Money and goods are certainly the best of references.
Professionally he declines and falls, and as a friend he drops into poetry.
I want to be something so much worthier than the doll in the doll's house.
I don't care whether I am a Minx or a Sphinx.
That's the state to live and die in!...R-r-rich!
'No one is useless in this world,' retorted the Secretary, 'who lightens the burden of it for any one else.'
"Well, every one for himself, and Providence for us all--as the elephant said when he danced among the chickens."
He describes London like a special correspondent for posterity.
It does not matter that Dicken's world is not lifelike; it is alive.
There is a heartlessness behind his sentimentally overflowing style.
George Meredith, in Edward Clodd, ''Memories'' (1916)
The soul of Hogarth has migrated into the body of Dickens.
Of all the Victorian novelists, he was probably the most antagonistic to the Victorian age itself.
