A republic cannot succeed, till it contains a certain body of men imbued with the principles of justice and honour.
It is a curious little world within itself
We will now discuss in a little more detail the struggle for existence.
The expression often used by Mr. Survival of the Fittest is more accurate, and is sometimes equally convenient.
One general law, leading to the advancement of all organic beings, namely, multiply, vary, let the strongest live and the weakest die.
Great is the power of steady misrepresentation; but the history of science shows that fortunately this power does not long endure.
I see no good reason why the views given in this volume should shock the religious feelings of any one.
The highest stage in moral culture at which we can arrive, is when we recognise that we ought to control our thoughts.
It may be doubted whether any character can be named which is distinctive of a race and is constant.
The young and the old of widely different races, both with man and animals, express the same state of mind by the same movements.
… cell of a tentacle, showing the various forms successively assumed by the aggregated masses of protoplasm.
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.
As for a future life, every man must judge for himself between conflicting vague probabilities.
I hate a Barnacle as no man ever did before, not even a Sailor in a slow-sailing ship.
I am almost convinced (quite contrary to opinion I started with) that species are not (it is like confessing a murder) immutable.
Alas! A scientific man ought to have no wishes, no affections — a mere heart of stone.
Physiological experiment on animals is justifiable for real investigation; but not for mere damnable and detestable curiosity.
It is mere rubbish thinking, at present, of origin of life; one might as well think of origin of matter. —
A cell is a complex structure, with its investing membrane, nucleus, and nucleolus.
I love fools' experiments. I am always making them.
I often find myself going back to Darwin's saying about the duration of a man's friendships being one of the best measures of his worth.
It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent, but rather the one most adaptable to change.
How I wish I had not expressed my theory of evolution as I have done.
To Charles Darwin and his contemporaries, the living cell was … formed from a kind of simple, uniform protoplasm.
Charles Darwin had a big idea, arguably the most powerful idea ever. And like all the best ideas it is beguilingly simple.
Darwin's theory of the origin of species is not only without sufficient support from evidence, but is proved false by a cumulative proof.
