If you tremble with indignation at every injustice, then you are a comrade of mine.
Real revolutionaries adorn themselves on the inside, not on the surface.
We cannot be sure of having something to live for unless we are willing to die for it.
I am not a liberator. Liberators do not exist. The people liberate themselves.
The revolution is not an apple that falls when it is ripe. You have to make it fall.
Silence is argument carried out by other means.
Cruel leaders are replaced only to have new leaders turn cruel!
One has to grow hard but without ever losing tenderness.
The interests of the IMF represent the big international interests that today seem to be established and concentrated in Wall Street.
When forces of oppression come to maintain themselves in power against established law, peace is considered already broken.
The guerrilla fighter needs full help from the people of the area. This is an indispensable condition.
The desire to sacrifice an entire lifetime to the noblest of ideals serves no purpose if one works alone.
Our youth must always be free, discussing and exchanging ideas concerned with what is happening throughout the entire world.
Everything we thought and felt in that past period ought to be deposited in an archive, and a new type of human being created.
In the future individualism ought to be the efficient utilization of the whole individual for the absolute benefit of a collectivity.
The life of a single human being is worth a million times more than all the property of the richest man on earth.
Far more important than a good remuneration is the pride of serving one's neighbor.
Much more definitive and much more lasting than all the gold that one can accumulate is the gratitude of a people.
Our enemy, and the enemy of all America, is the monopolistic government of the United States of America.
"Moral missiles" are such a devastatingly effective weapon that they have become the most important element in determining Cuba's value.
We should not allow the word "democracy" to be utilized apologetically to represent the dictatorship of the exploiting classes.
The International Monetary Fund is the watchdog of the dollar in the capitalist camp.
The socialist countries must help pay for the development of countries now starting out on the road to liberation.
Wealth is far from being within the reach of the masses simply through the process of appropriation.
To build communism it is necessary, simultaneous with the new material foundations, to build the new man and woman.
The myth of the self-made man, has to be profoundly hypocritical: it is the self-serving demonstration that a lie is the truth.
The ultimate and most important revolutionary aspiration: to see human beings liberated from their alienation.
The individual under socialism, despite apparent standardization, is more complete.
The basic clay of our work is the youth; we place our hope in it and prepare it to take the banner from our hands.
In a revolution one wins or dies, if it is a real one.
Other nations of the world summon my modest efforts of assistance.
If my final hour finds me under other skies, my last thought will be of this people and especially of you.
Once again I feel beneath my heels the ribs of Rocinante. Once more, I'm on the road with my shield on my arm.
Many will call me an adventurer, and that I am... only one of a different sort: one who risks his skin to prove his truths.
Your father has been a man who acted according to his beliefs and certainly has been faithful to his convictions.
Until always, little children. I still hope to see you again. A really big kiss and a hug from Papa.
There are no other alternatives; either a socialist revolution or a make-believe revolution.
How close we could look into a bright future should two, three or many Vietnams flourish throughout the world.
I know you've come to kill me. Shoot coward, you are only going to kill a man.
Che was loved, in spite of being stern and demanding. We would give our life for him.
We'll still have to wait many years for history to deliver a definite judgement on Che, when the passions of both sides have passed.
Che sowed the seeds of social conscience in Latin America and the world, he was a flower prematurely cut from its stem.
Che is fairly intellectual for a Latino.
He always did what he said he was going to do, That's why he is still timely.
We predict that Guevara will be eulogized as the model revolutionary who met a heroic death.
He was just like a Christ, with his strong eyes, his beard, his long hair. He is very miraculous.
Why do we say Che is alive? Because of his grandeur, his transcendence. For us, Che is here, very much alive, in everything we say.
The myth of the holy Che must finally be destroyed.
He taught me to think — he taught me the most beautiful thing which is to be human.
