David Irving is not just a Fascist historian. He is also a great historian of Fascism.
That most risky and volatile of all things&mdash;a self-pitying majority.
The reading public isn't born that doesn't think foreigners are either funny or faintly sinister.
The conservative aptitude for stressing the "individual responsibility" of all parties except themselves.
Perhaps the values of socialists can only be realized by socialists in a nonsocialist society.
"Peace through Strength," surely history's most exploded nostrum.
Intellectuals never sound more foolish than when posing as the last civilised man.
The essence of the independent mind lies not in ''what'' it thinks, but in ''how'' it thinks.
Time spent arguing with the faithful is, oddly enough, almost never wasted.
I don't think the war in Afghanistan was ruthlessly enough waged.
Even if the U.S. doesn't attack Saddam Hussein is not going to survive. His regime is on the verge of implosion.
Terrorism is the tactic of demanding the impossible, and demanding it at gunpoint.
A good liar must have a good memory. Kissinger is a stupendous liar with a remarkable memory.
Only the force of American arms, or the extremely credible threat of that force, can bring a fresh face to power.
The death toll is not nearly high enough... too many jihadists have escaped.
I became a journalist because I did not want to rely on newspapers for information.
Principles have a way of enduring, as do the few irreducible individuals who maintain allegiance to them.
There is no reason at all why there aren't enough people to guard New Orleans and to help stabilise Baghdad.
If you think that the intifada in France is about housing, go and try covering the story wearing a yarmulka.
Will an Iraq war make our Al Qaeda problem worse? Not likely.
We are not occupying Afghanistan, we are there as guests of a government, at their request.
Inanity is pretending that Afghanistan will go away if we leave.
To the dumb question "Why me?" the cosmos barely bothers to return the reply: Why not?
The taming and domestication of religion is one of the unceasing chores of civilization.
Three words for those who want to put the Christ back in Christmas: Jingle Bell Rock.
If I convert it's because it's better that a believer dies than that an atheist does.
Hitchens identified himself for many years as the heir to me … unfortunately, for him, I didn't die.
If Hitchens didn't exist, we wouldn't be able to invent him.
Mr Hitchens's policy has succeeded in making 10,000 new Bin Ladens.
Hitchens is the greatest living essayist in the English language.
Christopher Hitchens is a brilliant man, and there is no living journalist I more enjoy reading.
Well-travelled, hyper-educated, pissed-off, always funny, Christopher Hitchens has no equal in American journalism.
Hitchens is a witty thinker, but never a frivolous one.
Hitchens is a cynic and he knows nothing about religion
