學而時習之、不亦說乎。有朋自遠方來、不亦樂乎。人不知而不慍、不亦君子乎。
不患人之不己知，患不知人也。
主忠信。毋友不如己者。過，則勿憚改。
道千乘之國，敬事而信，節用而愛人，使民以時。
君子食無求飽，居無求安，敏於事而慎於言，就有道而正焉，可謂好學也已。
吾十有五而志於學，三十而立，四十而不惑，五十而知天命，六十而耳順，七十而从心所欲，不逾矩。
君子周而不比，小人比而不周。
學而不思則罔，思而不學則殆。
由，誨女知之乎，知之為知之，不知為不知，是知也。
視其所以，觀其所由，察其所安。人焉叟哉？人焉叟哉？
多聞闕疑，慎言其餘，則寡尤。多見闕殆，慎行其餘，則寡悔。言寡無，行寡悔，祿在其中矣。
非其鬼而祭之，諂也。見義不為，無勇也。
人而不仁、如禮何。人而不仁、如樂何。
If names be not correct, language is not in accordance with the truth of things.
君子無所爭、必也射乎、揖譲而升下、而飲、其爭也君子。
殷因於夏禮，所損益，可知也；周因於殷禮，所損益，可知也。其或繼周者，雖百世，可知也。
里仁為美、択不処仁、焉得知。
見賢思齊焉；見不賢而內自省也。
父在，觀其志；父殁，觀其行；三年无改於父之道，可謂孝矣。
知之者不如好之者，好之者不如樂之者。
中人以上、可以語上也、中人以下、不可以語上也。
知者樂水，仁者樂山。知者動，仁者静。知者樂，仁者寿。
務民之義、敬鬼神而遠之。可謂知矣。
君子博學於文、約之以禮、亦可以弗畔矣夫。
三人行，必有我師焉：擇其善者而從之，其不善者而改之。
邦有道貧且賤焉恥也，邦無道富且貴焉恥也。
為政以德，譬如北辰居其所而眾星共之。
事父母幾諫，見志不從，又敬不違，勞而不怨。
弟子，入則孝，出則弟，謹而信，凡愛眾，而親仁。行有餘力，則以學文。
君子不重，則不威。學則不固。主忠信。无友不如己者。國，則勿憚改。
默而識之，學而不厭，誨人不倦，何有於我哉？
德之不修，學之不講，聞義不能徒，不善不能改，是吾憂也。
君子安而不忘危，存而不忘亡，治而不忘亂。是以身安而國家可保也。
一個人生活沒有衝突，就好像他從來沒有生活可言
A scholar who loves comfort is not worthy of the name.
The man of virtue makes the difficulty to be overcome his first business, and success only a subsequent consideration.
When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them.
The superior man understands what is right; the inferior man understands what will sell.
Perfect is the virtue which is according to the Mean! Rare have they long been among the people, who could practice it!
There is no body but eats and drinks. But they are few who can distinguish flavors.
The superior man governs men, according to their nature, with what is proper to them, and as soon as they change what is wrong, he stops.
Benevolence is the characteristic element of humanity.
Sincerity is that whereby self-completion is effected, and its way is that by which man must direct himself.
To no one but the Son of Heaven does it belong to order ceremonies, to fix the measures, and to determine the written characters.
The superior man, even when he is not moving, has a feeling of reverence, and while he speaks not, he has the feeling of truthfulness.
Among the appliances to transform the people, sound and appearances are but trivial influences.
Men do not stumble over mountains, but over molehills
The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without.
Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.
No matter how busy you may think you are, you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance.
Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.
What Confucius contributes to our religious thought is no theory, but emphasis on individual conscience in belief.
Analects of Confucius (Wikipedia article)
