And she had It. It, hell; she had Those.
Salary is no object: I want only enough to keep body and soul apart.
And it is that word 'hummy,' my darlings, that marks the first place in ''The House at Pooh Corner'' at which Tonstant Weader fwowed up.
That would be a good thing for them to cut on my tombstone: Wherever she went, including here, it was against her better judgment.
A lady … with all the poise of the Sphinx though but little of her mystery.
''The House Beautiful'' is, for me, the play lousy.
Drink and dance and laugh and lie, Love, the reeling midnight through, For tomorrow we shall die! (But, alas, we never do.)
The ones I like … are "cheque" and "enclosed."
And I'll stay away from Verlaine too; he was always chasing Rimbauds.
One more drink and I'd have been under the host.
There's a hell of a distance between wise-cracking and wit. Wit has truth in it; wise-cracking is simply calisthenics with words.
It's not the tragedies that kill us; it's the messes.
All those writers who write about their own childhood! Gentle God, if I wrote about mine you wouldn't sit in the same room with me.
On being told of Calvin Coolidge's death How do they know? (Coolidge was well-known for being a man of very few words.)
You can't teach an old dogma new tricks.
It serves me right for putting all my eggs in one bastard.
You can lead a horticulture, but you can't make her think.
That woman speaks eighteen languages, and can't say No in any of them.
Katharine Hepburn delivered a striking performance that ran the gamut of emotions, from A to B.
The cure for boredom is curiosity. There is no cure for curiosity.
If you want to know what the Lord God thinks of money, just look at those to whom he gives it.
I like to have a martini, Two at the very most. After three I’m under the table, After four I’m under my host.
This is not a novel to be tossed aside lightly. It should be thrown with great force.
She is a combination of Little Nell and Lady Macbeth.
Everything I've ever said will be credited to Dorothy Parker.
