Welcome to the world of bullshit, my dear. You have arrived.
Chefs aren't celebrities: they're chefs.
People should be very free with sex, but they should draw the line at goats.
It's very important to have two tiaras when you're on the road, you never know when you'll be invited to something really formal.
Sometimes when I'm flying over the Alps I think, 'that's like all the cocaine I sniffed.
He is Mr Piano Man, I am Miss Piano Man.
There just aren't many people in the world with balls that big and talent that awesome.
You and your oven are capable of great things, Remember, no two ovens are the same.
Through a glass eye your throne Is the one danger zone. Take me to the pilot for control; Take me to the pilot of your soul.
He was born a pauper to a pawn on a Christmas day When the ''New York Times'' said God is dead And the war's begun.
Yeah I'm gonna kill myself, Get a little headline news. I'd like to see what the papers say On the state of teenage blues.
Have mercy on the criminal Who is running from the law. Are you blind to the winds of change? Don't you hear him any more?
We'll kill the fatted calf tonight, so stick around, You're gonna hear electric music, solid walls of sound.
When are you gonna come down? When are you going to land? I should have stayed on the farm, I should have listened to my old man.
So goodbye yellow brick road, Where the dogs of society howl. You can't plant me in your penthouse, I'm going back to my plough.
Don't give us none of your aggravation, We had it with your discipline. Saturday night's alright for fighting, Get a little action in.
In the instant that you love someone, In the second that the hammer hits, Reality runs up your spine, And the pieces finally fit.
For each man in his time is Cain Until he walks along the beach And sees his future in the water, A long lost heart within his reach.
There was a time, I was everything and nothing all in one. When you found me, I was feeling like a cloud across the sun.
A dream will fly The moment that you open up your eyes. A dream is just a riddle, Ghosts from every corner of your life.
