SURGEONS must be very careful When they take the knife! Underneath their fine incisions  Stirs the culprit,—Life!
IT ’S such a little thing to weep,  So short a thing to sigh;  And yet by trades the size of these  We men and women die!
WHO has not found the heaven below  Will fail of it above.  God’s residence is next to mine,  His furniture is love.
IT might be easier  To fail with land in sight,  Than gain my blue peninsula  To perish of delight.
THE PEDIGREE of honey Does not concern the bee;  A clover, any time, to him  Is aristocracy.
LOVE is anterior to life,  Posterior to death,  Initial of creation, and  The exponent of breath.
THAT such have died enables us  The tranquiller to die;  That such have lived, certificate  For immortality.
SOME Days retired from the rest  In soft distinction lie, The Day that a companion came—  Or was obliged to die.
THE SWEETS of Pillage can be known  To no one but the Thief,  Compassion for Integrity  Is his divinest Grief.
THE FACE we choose to miss,  Be it but for a day— As absent as a hundred years  When it has rode away.
"Faith" is a fine invention  When Gentlemen can ''see'' —  But ''Microscopes'' are prudent  In an Emergency.
The Soul selects her own Society —  Then — shuts the Door —  To her divine Majority —  Present no more —
Some keep the Sabbath going to Church — I keep it, staying at Home— With a Bobolink for a Chorister — And an Orchard, for a Dome—
God preaches, a noted Clergyman — And the sermon is never long, So instead of getting to Heaven, at last— I’m going, all along.
I heard a Fly buzz — when I died — The Stillness in the Room Was like the Stillness in the Air — Between the Heaves of Storm —
We outgrow love, like other things And put it in the Drawer — Till it an Antique fashion shows — Like Costumes Grandsires wore.
To Whom the Mornings stand for Nights, What must the Midnights — be!
A Vastness, as a Neighbor, came, A Wisdom, without Face, or Name, A Peace, as Hemispheres at Home And so the Night became.
If Aims impel these Astral Ones The ones allowed to know Know that which makes them as forgot As Dawn forgets them — now
Who has not found the Heaven — below — Will fail of it above —
I took one Draught of Life — I'll tell you what I paid — Precisely an existence — The market price, they said.
