I was born with the biggest middle finger on Earth.
I'm into this hip-hop till hell freezes over!
Bitch, I ain't no fucking G, I'm a cannibal! I ain't trying to shoot you, I'm trying to chop you into pieces and eat you!
If you was bleach and I was hair, I wouldn't die (dye) fo' ya'!
If I'm garbage you're a bunch of maggots
See I'm a poet to some, a regular modern day Shakespeare
Had a dream, I was king, I woke up, still king.
My rhyming skills got you climbing hills, I'll travel through your mind into your spine like siren drills.
My pen and paper causes a chain reaction, to get your brain relaxing.
You couldn't make the fans throw up their hands if they swallowed their fingers.
You could date a stick of dynamite and wouldn't go out with a bang.
I'll run your brain around the block to jog your fucking memory.
I showered the slang, simple as ABC's / Skip over the D's and rock the microphone with ease (E's).
Cause you can be quick, jump the candlestick, burn your back, and fuck Jill on a hill, but you still ain't jack.
I've got miracle lyrical capability all in me / With the agility to escape a killer bee colony.
You bitches get a hysterectomy disrespecting me! You wanna feel the full effect of me? Hand a TEC to me.
My brain's dead weight, I'm tryin' to get my head straight, but I can't figure out which Spice Girl I want to impregnate.
Since age twelve, I've felt like I'm someone else,'cause I hung my original self from the top bunk with a belt.
All my life I was very deprived, I ain't had a woman in years, and my palms are too hairy to hide (Whoops!).
Brain damage ever since the day I was born, drugs is what they used to say I was on. They say I never knew which way I was goin'.
You beef with me, I'm gonna even the score equally - take you on Jerry Springer, and beat your ass legally.
So if I said I never did drugs, that would mean I lie ''and'' get fucked more than the president does!
Smoke weed, take pills, drop outta school, kill people and drink. Jump behind the wheel like it was still legal!
My middle finger won't go down, how do I wave?
''(imitating Norman Bates)'' Mother, are you there? I love you! I never meant to hit you over the head with that shovel!
I'm in the fourth row, signing autographs at your show.
I just remembered that I'm absent minded... wait, I mean I lost my mind, I can't find it.
Got bitches on my jock out in East Detroit, cause they think that I'm a motherfucking Beastie Boy.
I'm buzzin, Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer, cursin at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You ain't gonna sell two copies if you press a double album.
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall), I have a disease and they don't know what to call it.
Slim Shady, Eminem was the old initials.
They threw me out the Ramada Inn, I said: 'It wasn't me, I got a twin! Oh my god it's you, not again!'
I try to keep it positive and play it cool, shoot up the playground and tell the kids to stay in school.
I listen to your demo tape and act like I don't like it, six months later you hear your lyrics on my shit.
I can't change the way I am … but if I offended you, good. Cause I still don't give a fuck.
Fuck a needle, here's a sword, body pierce with this.
I'm ducked the fuck down while I'm writin this rhyme, cause I'm probably gonna get struck with lightning this time.
I walked into a gunfight with a knife to kill you, and cut you so fast when your blood spilled it was still blue.
I don't rap to get the women, fuck bitches. Give me a fat slut that cooks and does dishes.
Sometimes I even cut myself to see how much it bleeds, it's like adrenaline: The pain is such a sudden rush for me!
And Dr. Dre said … nothing, you idiots! Dr. Dre's dead, he's locked in my basement!
Will Smith don't got to cuss in his raps to sell records. Well, I do, so fuck him and fuck you too!
Oops, I did it again, didn't I? My shit's harder to figure out than what Britney's tit size is.
What, you're tryin' to be my new wife? What're you, Mariah? Fly through twice!
I've never loved you enough to trust you, we just met and I just fucked you!
Put anthrax on your Tampax and slap you 'till you can't stand! Girl, you just blew your chance, don't mean to ruin your plans!
More pain inside of my brain than in the eyes of a little girl inside of a plane aimed at the World Trade!
Music is like magic. There's a certain feeling you get when you real and you spit and people are feelin' your shit."
A plaque and platinum status iIs whack if I’m not the baddest."
And I don't even gotta make no goddamn sense, I just did a whole song and I didn't say shit!
We're all we got in this world, When it spins, when it swirls, When it whirls, when it twirls, Two little beautiful girls.
If they don't let us in through the front? We'll come through the side!
Fuck money. I don't rap for dead presidents; I'd rather see the president dead. It's never been said, but I set precedents.
I said nice rectum, I had a vasectomy, Hector, so you won't get pregnant if I bisexually wreck ya"
You can be a permanent fixture in my lyrical mixture.
Better try to stay wide awake, or you might end up found dead by the lake.
Alot of people ask me... Where the fuck I've been at the last few years? Shit, I don't know... But I do know I'm back now!
Wack job in the back with a black stocking cap/Jacking off to a hockey mask in a boxing match
I stuck my dick in this game like a rapist. They call me 'Slim Roethlisberger'!
Now get off my dick, dick's too short of a word for my dick, get off my antidisestablishmentarianism you prick
Ya'll are Eminem backwards, you're mini-mes
And love is "evol" spell it backwards I'll show you.
I'd shoot for the moon, but I'm too busy gazing at stars.
And like a 'Fuck You' for Christmas, his gift is a curse.
You could try and read my lyrics off of this paper before I lay them. But, you won't take the sting out of these words before I say them.
I told the world one day I would pay it back,
