Somebody just back of you while you are fishing is as bad as someone looking over your shoulder while you write a letter to your girl.
A man's got to take a lot of punishment to write a really funny book.
''The age demanded that we dance And jammed us into iron pants. And in the end the age was handed The sort of shit that it demanded.''
In the fall the war was always there but we did not go to it any more.
‘It’s his sense of self-preservation.’ ‘The great Italian sense.’ ‘The greatest Italian sense.’
That terrible mood of depression of whether it's any good or not is what is known as The Artist's Reward.
I've been in love (truly) with five women, the Spanish Republic and the 4th Infantry Division.
Eschew the monumental. Shun the Epic. All the guys who can paint great big pictures can paint great small ones.
However you make your living is where your talent lies.
Ezra was right half the time, and when he was wrong, he was so wrong you were never in any doubt about it.
I don't like to write like God. It is only because you never do it, though, that the critics think you can't do it.
Cowardice, as distinguished from panic, is almost always simply a lack of ability to suspend the functioning of the imagination.
All my life I've looked at words as though I were seeing them for the first time.
Scott took LITERATURE so solemnly. He never understood that it was just writing as well as you can and finishing what you start.
Wars are Spinach. Life in general is the tough part. In war all you have to do is not worry and know how to read a map and co-ordinates.
Writing and travel broaden your ass if not your mind and I like to write standing up.
We are all apprentices in a craft where no one ever becomes a master.
If you have a success, you have it for the wrong reasons. If you become popular it is always because of the worst aspects of your work.
You make your own luck, Gig. You know what makes a good loser? Practice.
It's none of their business that you have to learn how to write. Let them think you were born that way.
'Listen Jake... don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you are not taking advantage of it?'
All right. Have it your own way. Road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs. Not my fault.
This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. You don't want to mix emotions up with a wine like that. You lose the taste.
'How did you go bankrupt?' Bill asked. 'Two ways,' Mike said. 'Gradually and then suddenly.'
'You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch.' 'Yes.' 'It’s sort of what we have instead of God.'
You're my religion. You're all I've got.
Life isn't hard to manage when you've nothing to lose.
That is all there is to the story. Catherine died and you will die and I will die and that is all I can promise you.
About morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after.
All our words from loose using have lost their edge.
Madame, all stories, if continued far enough, end in death, and he is no true-story teller who would keep that from you.
Prose is architecture, not interior decoration, and the Baroque is over.
When writing a novel a writer should create living people; people not characters. A character is a caricature.
In every port in the world, at least two Estonians can be found.
He was just a coward and that was the worst luck any man could have.
If we win here we will win everywhere. The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it.
There's no ''one'' thing that's true. It's all true.
That tomorrow should come and that I should be there.
Let him think I am more man than I am and I will be so.
Keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man. Or a fish, he thought.
'But man is not made for defeat,' he said. 'A man can be destroyed but not defeated.'
Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is.
"Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready."
A writer should write what he has to say and not speak it.
Some people show evil as a great racehorse shows breeding. They have the dignity of a hard chancre.
All things truly wicked start from an innocence.
One battle doesn't make a campaign but critics treat one book, good or bad, like a whole goddamn war.
Hesitation increases in relation to risk in equal proportion to age.
Only three things in my life I've really liked to do - hunt, write and make love.
To be a successful father … there's one absolute rule: when you have a kid, don't look at it for the first two years.
The way to learn whether a person is trustworthy is to trust him.
All good books have one thing in common — they are truer than if they had really happened.
Fear of death increases in exact proportion to increase in wealth: Hemingstein's Law on the Dynamics of Dying.
You write a book like that that you're fond of over the years, then you see that happen to it, it's like pissing in your father's beer.
Being against evil doesn't make you good. Tonight I was against it and then I was evil myself.
Everybody is friends when things are bad enough.
But life is a cheap thing beside a man's work. The only thing is that you need it.
You never understand anybody that loves you.
Happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing I know.
When you stop doing things for fun you might as well be dead.
As to Hemingway, I read him for the first time in the early 'forties, something about bells, balls and bulls, and loathed it.
