If your children ever find out how lame you really are, they’ll murder you in your sleep.
The things that were happening in 1955 were cosmic … in terms of music history.
Classical musicians go to the conservatories, rock´n roll musicians go to the garages.
Being interviewed is one of the most abnormal things that you can do to somebody else. It's two steps removed from the Inquisition.
I don't give a fuck if they remember me at all.
I'm probably more famous for sitting on the toilet than for anything else that I do.
A wise man once said, "never discuss philosophy or politics in a disco environment."
When God created Republicans, he gave up on everything else.
The rock and roll business is pretty absurd, but the world of serious music is much worse.
I have four children, and I want them to grow up in a country that has a working First Amendment.
The most important thing to do in your life is to not interfere with somebody else's life.
Let's not be too rough on our own ignorance; it's what makes America great!
Rock journalism is people who can't write, interviewing people who can't talk, in order to provide articles for people who can't read.
Take the ''Kama Sutra''. How many people died from the Kama Sutra, as opposed to the Bible? Who wins?
Watch out where the huskies go, and don't you eat that yellow snow.
You know, people are basically shitty. It’s when they prove it over and over again that it gets obnoxious.
Beauty is a pair of shoes that makes you wanna die.
Remember there's a big difference between kneeling down and bending over.
There are three things that smell of fish. One of them is fish. The other two are growing on you!
Shes a valley girl  In a clothing store  Okay, fine...  Fer sure, fer sure.
Do you think you are protecting somebody by taking away seven words?
Tell you what — ''Kiss my ass!'' How do you like that…?
A composer is a guy who goes around forcing his will on unsuspecting air molecules, often with the assistance of unsuspecting musicians.
Art is making something out of nothing and selling it.
There are more love songs than anything else. If songs could make you do something, we'd all love one another.
The United States is a nation of laws: badly written and randomly enforced.
Without deviation, progress is not possible.
Communism doesn't work because people like to own stuff.
In the fight between you and the world, back the world.
