The monuments of wit survive the monuments of power.
Aristotle… a mere bond-servant to his logic, thereby rendering it contentious and well nigh useless.
Riches are a good handmaid, but the worst mistress.
Death is a friend of ours; and he that is not ready to entertain him is not at home.
Ne mireris, si vulgus verius loquatur quam honoratiores; quia etiam tutius loquitur.
He that defers his charity 'till he is dead, is (if a man weighs it rightly) rather liberal of another man's, than of his own.
Whence we see spiders, flies, or ants entombed and preserved forever in amber, a more than royal tomb.
Knowledge, that tendeth but to satisfaction, is but as a courtesan, which is for pleasure, and not for fruit or generation.
For all knowledge and wonder (which is the seed of knowledge) is an impression of pleasure in itself.
The sun, which passeth through pollutions and itself remains as pure as before.
Sacred and inspired divinity, the sabaoth and port of all men's labours and peregrinations.
Cleanness of body was ever deemed to proceed from a due reverence to God.
They are ill discoverers that think there is no land, when they can see nothing but sea.
But men must know that in this theater of man's life it is reserved only for God and angels to be lookers on.
We are much beholden to Machiavel and others, that write what men do, and not what they ought to do.
Primum quaerite bona animi; caetera aut aderunt, aut non oberunt
…it is the peculiar and perpetual error of the human understanding to be more moved and excited by affirmatives than by negatives…
But the best demonstration by far is experience, if it go not beyond the actual experiment.
It is not possible to run a course aright when the goal itself has not been rightly placed.
Truth will sooner come out from error than from confusion.
Hope is a good breakfast, but it is a bad supper.
Like strawberry wives, that laid two or three great strawberries at the mouth of their pot, and all the rest were little ones.
Sir Henry Wotton used to say that critics are like brushers of noblemen's clothes.
Sir Amice Pawlet, when he saw too much haste made in any matter, was wont to say. "Stay a while, that we may make an end the sooner."
Cato said the best way to keep good acts in memory was to refresh them with new.
What is truth? said jesting Pilate, and would not stay for an answer.
No pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage-ground of truth.
It is not the lie that passeth through the mind, but the lie that sinketh in and settleth in it, that doth the hurt.
Certainly, it is heaven upon earth, to have a man's mind move in charity, rest in providence, and turn upon the poles of truth.
Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark; and as that natural fear in children is increased with tales, so is the other.
Revenge is a kind of wild justice; which the more man's nature runs to, the more ought law to weed it out.
Base and crafty cowards are like the arrow that flieth in the dark.
Vindictive persons live the life of witches; who, as they are mischievous, so end they infortunate.
Prosperity is the blessing of the Old Testament; adversity is the blessing of the New.
Prosperity doth best discover vice, but adversity doth best discover virtue.
Virtue is like precious odors — most fragrant when they are incensed or crushed.
The joys of parents are secret; and so are their griefs and fears. They cannot utter the one; nor they will not utter the other.
Wives are young men's mistresses, companions for middle age, and old men's nurses.
For it is a true rule, that love is ever rewarded either with the reciproque, or with an inward and secret contempt.
Nuptial love maketh mankind, friendly love perfecteth it, but wonton love corrupteth and embaseth it.
Men in great place are thrice servants,—servants of the sovereign or state, servants of fame, and servants of business.
It is a strange desire, to seek power and to lose liberty.
There is in human nature generally more of the fool than of the wise.
Boldness is ever blind; for it seeth not dangers and inconveniences.
The desire of power in excess caused the angels to fall; the desire of knowledge in excess caused man to fall.
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread.
Princes are like heavenly bodies, which cause good or evil times, and which have much veneration but no rest.
Fortune is like the market, where many times, if you can stay a little, the price will fall.
Nothing doth more hurt in a state than that cunning men pass for wise.
Be true to thyself, as thou be not false to others.
It is the nature of extreme self-lovers, as they will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast their eggs.
As the births of living creatures at first are ill-shapen, so are all Innovations, which are the births of time.
He that will not apply new remedies must expect new evils; for time is the greatest innovator.
A crowd is not company; and faces are but a gallery of pictures; and talk but a tinkling cymbal, where there is no love.
He that commands the sea is at great liberty, and may take as much and as little of the war as he will.
Nature is often hidden; sometimes overcome; seldom extinguished.
If a man look sharply and attentively, he shall see Fortune; for though she is blind, she is not invisible.
Chiefly the mold of a man's fortune is in his own hands.
If a man look sharply and attentively, he shall see Fortune; for though she is blind, she is not invisible.
Virtue is like a rich stone — best plain set.
There is no excellent beauty that hath not some strangeness in the proportion.
Houses are built to live in, not to look on; therefore, let use be preferred before uniformity, except where both may be had.
God Almighty first planted a garden. And indeed it is the purest of human pleasures.
Costly followers are not to be liked; lest while a man maketh his train longer, he make his wings shorter.
Read not to contradict and confute; nor to believe and take for granted; nor to find talk and discourse; but to weigh and consider.
Reading maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man.
A wise man will make more opportunities, than he finds.
Certainly fame is like a river, that beareth up things light and swoln, and drowns things weighty and solid.
Glorious men are the scorn of wise men, the admiration of fools, the idols of parasites, and the slaves of their own vaunts.
The winning of honor, is but the revealing of a man's virtue and worth, without disadvantage.
Judges ought to remember, that their office is ''jus dicere'', and not ''jus dare''; to interpret law, and not to make law, or give law.
The greatest vicissitude of things amongst men is the vicissitude of sects and religions.
The world's a bubble, and the life of man Less than a span.
Who then to frail mortality shall trust But limns the water, or but writes in dust.
What then remains but that we still should cry Not to be born, or, being born, to die?
Books must follow sciences, and not sciences books.
The Lord Chancellor was not particularly interested in the writings of the humanists.
Imagination was given to man to compensate for what he is not, and a sense of humor to console him for what he is.
Choose the best life; for habit will make it pleasant
For behavior, men learn it, as they take diseases, one of another.
