Nothing is a greater stranger to my breast, or a sin that my soul more abhors, than that black and detestable one, ingratitude.
There is a Destiny which has the control of our actions, not to be resisted by the strongest efforts of Human Nature.
Discipline is the soul of an army. It makes small numbers formidable; procures success to the weak, and esteem to all.
Every post is honorable in which a man can serve his country.
Parade with me my brave fellows, we will have them soon!
Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder.
No distance can keep anxious lovers long asunder.
Example, whether it be good or bad, has a powerful influence.
Without a decisive naval force we can do nothing definitive. And with it, everything honorable and glorious.
Gentlemen, you will permit me to put on my spectacles, for, I have grown not only gray, but almost blind in the service of my country.
Arbitrary power is most easily established on the ruins of liberty abused to licentiousness.
A people... who are possessed of the spirit of commerce, who see and who will pursue their advantages may achieve almost anything.
Happiness and moral duty are inseparably connected.
To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace.
It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.
When one side only of a story is heard and often repeated, the human mind becomes impressed with it insensibly.
It is infinitely better to have a few good men than many indifferent ones.
I die hard but am not afraid to go. I believed from my first attack that I should not survive it — my breath cannot last long.
There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation.
Harmony, liberal intercourse with all nations, are recommended by policy, humanity, and interest.
Associate yourself with Men of good Quality if you Esteem your own Reputation; for 'tis better to be alone than in bad Company.
The government of the United States is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion.
The marvel of all history is the patience with which men and women submit to burdens unnecessarily laid upon them by their governments.
It will be found an unjust and unwise jealousy, to deny a man the liberty he hath by nature upon a supposition that he may abuse it.
What students would learn in American schools above all is the religion of Jesus Christ.
It is impossible to rightly govern the world without God and the Bible.
We had quitters during the Revolution too... we called them "Kentuckians."
He is polite with dignity, affable without formality, distant without haughtiness, grave without austerity; modest, wise and good.
There is nothing that will make an Englishman shit so quick as the sight of General Washington.
Washington wasn't born good. Only practice and habit made him so.
Posterity will talk of Washington as the founder of a great empire, when my name shall be lost in the vortex of revolution.
Washington is the greatest man, for I look upon him as the most virtuous."
We cannot imagine an Eisenhower, a Pershing, a Lee, dancing with joy on a dock, but Washington did it.
I often say of George Washington that he was one of the few in the whole history of the world who was not carried away by power.
Eternity alone can reveal to the human race its debt of gratitude to the peerless and immortal name of Washington.
His excellency General Washington has arrived amoungst us, universally admired. Joy was visable on every countenance.
If he does that, he will be the greatest man in the world.
First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen.
I bet after seeing us, George Washington would sue us for calling him "father."
The name of an iron man goes round the world.  It takes a long time to forget an iron man.
George Washington is the only president who didn't blame the previous administration for his troubles.
While Washington's a watchword, such as ne'er Shall sink while there's an echo left to air.
A nobleness to try for, A name to live and die for.
First in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his countrymen.
First in war, first in peace, first in the hearts of his fellow citizens.
The purely Great Whose soul no siren passion could unsphere, Thou nameless, now a power and mixed with fate.
Oh, Washington! thou hero, patriot sage, Friend of all climes, and pride of every age!
Every countenance seeked to say, "Long live George Washington, the Father of the People."
'Twas his ambition, generous and great A life to life's great end to consecrate.
While Washington hath left His awful memory, A light for after times.
