Man is not a Yahoo, but he is rather like a Yahoo and needs to be reminded of it from time to time.
Perhaps a man really dies when his brain stops, when he loses the power to take in a new idea.
It is not possible for any thinking person to live in such a society as our own without wanting to change it.
So much of left-wing thought is a kind of playing with fire by people who don't even know that fire is hot.
Men are only as good as their technical development allows them to be.
There is something wrong with a regime that requires a pyramid of corpses every few years.
We are in a strange period of history in which a revolutionary has to be a patriot and a patriot has to be a revolutionary.
Particularly on the Left, political thought is a sort of masturbation fantasy in which the world of facts hardly matters.
Each generation imagines itself to be more intelligent than the one that went before it, and wiser than the one that comes after it.
The real division is not between conservatives and revolutionaries but between authoritarians and libertarians.
If liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear.
To see what is in front of one's nose needs a constant struggle.
But is it really necessary, in 1947, to teach children to use expressions like "native" and "Chinaman"?
No one can look back on his schooldays and say with truth that they were altogether unhappy.
One cannot really be Catholic & grown-up.
At 50, everyone has the face he deserves.
There is only one way to make money at writing, and that is to marry a publisher's daughter.
One always abandons something in retreat. Look at Napoleon at the Beresina! He abandoned his whole army.
Fate seemed to be playing a series of extraordinarily unamusing jokes.
It is fatal to look hungry. It makes people want to kick you.
How sweet the air does smell — even the air of a back-street in the suburbs — after the shut-in, subfaecal stench of the spike!
He had two subjects of conversation, the shame and come-down of being a tramp, and the best way of getting a free meal.
The most bitter insult one can offer to a Londoner is "bastard" — which, taken for what it means, is hardly an insult at all.
Ellis was one of those people who constantly nag others to echo their own opinions.
Beauty is meaningless until it is shared.
It is one of the tragedies of the half-educated that they develop late, when they are already committed to some wrong way of life.
An earthquake is such fun when it is over.
Is there anything in the world more graceless, more dishonouring, than to desire a woman whom you will never have?
One's got to change the system, or one changes nothing.
I have the most evil memories of Spain, but I have very few bad memories of Spaniards.
Human beings were behaving as human beings and not as cogs in the capitalist machine.
Everyone always did miss everyone else in this war, whenever it was humanly possible to do so.
Not to have a national anthem would be logical.
Antisemitism, for instance, is simply not the doctrine of a grown-up person.
Man is not likely to salvage civilization unless he can evolve a system of good and evil which is independent of heaven and hell.
Even stupidity is better than totalitarianism.
Take away freedom of speech, and the creative faculties dry up.
One of the big failures in human history has been the agelong attempt to stop women painting their faces.
Anyone who knows of a provable instance of colour discrimination ought always to expose it.
Nationalism is power-hunger tempered by self-deception.
There is no crime, absolutely none, that cannot be condoned when 'our' side commits it.
Within any important issue, there are always aspects no one wishes to discuss.
In a time of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act.
If people cannot write well, they cannot think well, and if they cannot think well, others will do their thinking for them.
We sleep peaceably in our beds at night only because rough men stand ready to do violence on our behalf.
If you want to imagine the future, imagine a boot, stamping on a human face forever.
To enforce the lies of the present, it is necessary to erase the truths of the past.
We have a hunger for something like authenticity, but are easily satisfied by an ersatz facsimile.
There are some ideas so absurd that only an intellectual could believe them.
The further a society drifts from truth, the more it will hate those who speak it.
What he feared most was the blind spot between us and the future, the space between identities where we could get lost forever.
