Patriotism is, fundamentally, a conviction that a particular country is the best in the world because you were born in it…
My method is to take the utmost trouble to find the right thing to say, and then to say it with the utmost levity.
We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it.
I'm only a beer teetotaler, not a champagne teetotaler. I don't like beer.
We don't bother much about dress and manners in England, because as a nation we don't dress well and we've no manners.
The great advantage of a hotel is that it's a refuge from home life.
My specialty is being right when other people are wrong.
There is only one religion, though there are a hundred versions of it.
Why should you call me to account for eating decently?
The novelties of one generation are only the resuscitated fashions of the generation before last.
The worst indifferent to them: that's the essence of inhumanity.
You must not suppose, because I am a man of letters, that I never tried to earn an honest living.
idle people believe they are doing something very clever, when they are only wasting their time.
Assassination is the extreme form of censorship; and it seems hard to justify an incitement to it on anti-censorial principles.
Why was I born with such contemporaries?
The word morality, if we met it in the Bible, would surprise us as much as the word telephone or motor car.
That proves it's not by Shaw, because all Shaw's characters are himself: mere puppets stuck up to spout Shaw.
As long as I have a want, I have a reason for living. Satisfaction is death.
Custom will reconcile people to any atrocity; and fashion will drive them to acquire any custom.
You'll never have a quiet world till you knock the patriotism out of the human race.
Political necessities sometimes turn out to be political mistakes.
Scratch an Englishman and find a Protestant.
God is on the side of the big battalions.
Must then a Christ perish in torment in every age to save those that have no imagination?
It is difficult, if not impossible, for most people to think otherwise than in the fashion of their own period.
One man that has a mind and knows it can always beat ten men who haven't and don't.
God help England if she had no Scots to think for her!
Well, of course, they notice you. You always hide just in the middle of the limelight.
No public man in these islands ever believes that the Bible means what it says: he is always convinced that it says what he means.
I have defined the 100 per cent American as 99 per cent an idiot.
I am afraid we must make the world honest before we can honestly tell our children that honesty is the best policy.
An American has no sense of privacy. He does not know what it means. There is no such thing in the country.
You in America should trust to that volcanic political instinct which I have divined in you.
The quality of a play is the quality of its ideas.
A government which robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.
The road to ignorance is paved with good editions. Only the illiterate can afford to buy good books now.
The secret of success is to offend the greatest number of people.
Consistency is the enemy of enterprise, just as symmetry is the enemy of art.
The single biggest problem in communication is the illusion that it has taken place.
Vulgarity is a necessary part of a complete author's equipment; and the clown is sometimes the best part of the circus.
I know I began as a habit, like all husbands.
A man of my spiritual intensity does not eat corpses.
It's well to be off with the Old Woman before you're on with the New.
The fickleness of the women I love is only equaled by the infernal constancy of the women who love me.
The test of a man or woman's breeding is how they behave in a quarrel.
There are no secrets better kept than the secrets everybody guesses.
I know Miss Warren is a great devotee of the Gospel of Getting On.
When a stupid man is doing something he is ashamed of, he always declares that it is his duty.
The way to deal with worldly people is to frighten them by repeating their scandalous whisperings aloud.
There are some men who are considered quite ugly, but who are more remarkable than pretty people. You often see that in artists.
All very fine, Mary; but my old-fashioned common sense is better than your clever modern nonsense.
I hate singers, a miserable crew who think that music exists only in their own throats.
A man's own self is the last person to believe in him, and is harder to cheat than the rest of the world.
Even the youngest of us may be wrong sometimes.
There are two tragedies in life. One is not to get your heart's desire. The other is to get it.
There is no love sincerer than the love of food.
The confusion of marriage with morality has done more to destroy the conscience of the human race than any other single error.
Do not do unto others as you would expect they should do unto you. Their tastes may not be the same.
He who confuses political liberty with freedom and political equality with similarity has never thought for five minutes about either.
Where equality is undisputed, so also is subordination.
A fool’s brain digests philosophy into folly, science into superstition, and art into pedantry.
The best brought-up children are those who have seen their parents as they are. Hypocrisy is not the parent's first duty.
No man can be a pure specialist without being in the strict sense an idiot.
Criminals do not die by the hands of the law. They die by the hands of other men.
It is not necessary to replace a guillotined criminal: it is necessary to replace a guillotined social system.
There are no perfectly honorable men; but every true man has one main point of honor and a few minor ones.
Beware of the man whose god is in the skies.
Self-denial is not a virtue: it is only the effect of prudence on rascality.
Obedience simulates subordination as fear of the police simulates honesty.
In a stupid nation the man of genius becomes a god: everybody worships him and nobody does his will.
Riches and Art are spurious receipts for the production of Happiness and Beauty.
He who desires a lifetime of happiness with a beautiful woman desires to enjoy the taste of wine by keeping his mouth always full of it.
The man with a toothache thinks everyone happy whose teeth are sound. The poverty stricken man makes the same mistake about the rich man.
The more a man possesses over and above what he uses, the more careworn he becomes.
In an ugly and unhappy world the richest man can purchase nothing but ugliness and unhappiness.
No elaboration of physical or moral accomplishment can atone for the sin of parasitism.
Reason enslaves all whose minds are not strong enough to master her.
Decency is Indecency’s Conspiracy of Silence.
The reformer for whom the world is not good enough finds himself shoulder to shoulder with him that is not good enough for the world.
Youth, which is forgiven everything, forgives itself nothing: age, which forgives itself everything, is forgiven nothing.
When a heretic wishes to avoid martyrdom he speaks of “Orthodoxy, True and False” and demonstrates that the True is his heresy.
If you begin by sacrificing yourself to those you love, you will end by hating those to whom you have sacrificed yourself.
The greatest of evils and the worst of crimes is poverty.
The faults of the burglar are the qualities of the financier: the manners and habits of a duke would cost a city clerk his situation.
I can't talk religion to a man with bodily hunger in his eyes.
You cannot have good without having power for evil too. Even mother's milk nourishes murderers as well as heroes.
Undershaft: My religion? Well, my dear, I am a Millionaire. That is my religion.
You have learnt something. That always feels at first as if you had lost something.
You cannot be a hero without being a coward.
What really flatters a man is that you think him worth flattering.
My way of joking is to tell the truth. It's the funniest joke in the world.
Home life as we understand it is no more natural to us than a cage is natural to a cockatoo.
Love is an appetite which, like all other appetites, is destroyed for the moment by its gratification.
Journalists are too poorly paid in this country to know anything that is fit for publication.
The secret of forgiving everything is to understand nothing.
Nothing is more dreadful than a husband who keeps telling you everything he thinks, and always wants to know what you think.
The whole strength of England lies in the fact that the enormous majority of the English people are snobs.
You don't learn to hold your own in the world by standing on guard, but by attacking, and getting well hammered yourself.
It is more dangerous to be a great poet than to promote twenty companies for swindling simple folk out of their savings.
Optimistic lies have such immense therapeutic value that a doctor who cannot tell them convincingly has mistaken his profession.
A perpetual holiday is a good working definition of Hell.
I like a bit of a mongrel myself, whether it's a man or a dog; they're the best for every day.
If parents would only realize how they bore their children!
Death is for many of us the gate of hell; but we are inside on the way out, not outside on the way in.
Do not try to live for ever. You will not succeed.
All professions are conspiracies against the laity.
I don't believe in morality. I'm a disciple of Bernard Shaw.
Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.
Chloroform has done a lot of mischief. It's enabled every fool to be a surgeon.
It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth without making some other Englishman hate or despise him.
The English have no respect for their language, and will not teach their children to speak it.
He ain't a copper just look at 'is boots!
Ah-ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-oo-oo!!! I ain't dirty: I washed me face and hands afore I come, I did!
Women upset everything. When you let them into your life, you find that the woman is driving at one thing and you're driving at another.
What is life but a series of inspired follies? The difficulty is to find them to do. Never lose a chance: it doesn't come every day.
I wouldn't have ate it, only I'm too lady-like to take it out of my mouth.
I don't want to talk grammar, I want to talk like a lady.
I ask you, what am I? I’m one of the undeserving poor: thats what I am. Think of what that means to a man.
I aint such a mug as to put up my children to all I know myself.
I heard your prayers ''Thank God it's all over!''
Time enough to think of the future when you haven't any future to think of.
I have to live for others and not for myself; that's middle-class morality.
Independence? That's middle-class blasphemy. We are all dependent on one another, every soul of us on earth.
Revolutionary movements attract those who are not good enough for established institutions as well as those who are too good for them.
"He must be greatly changed. Has he attained the seventh degree of concentration?"
I hear you say "Why?" Always "Why?" You see things; and you say "Why?" But I dream things that never were; and I say "Why not?" 
Imagination is the beginning of creation. You imagine what you desire; you will what you imagine; and at last you create what you will.
Conceive. That is the word that means both the beginning in imagination and the end in creation.
Your father is a fool skin deep; but you are a fool to your very marrow.
Any sort of plain speaking is better than the nauseous sham good fellowship our democratic public men get up for shop use.
There are no secrets except the secrets that keep themselves.
Everything happens to everybody sooner or later if there is time enough.
Silence is the perfect expression of scorn.
The worst cliques are those which consist of one man.
Life is not meant to be easy, my child but take courage: it can be delightful.
When the master has come to do everything through the slave, the slave becomes his master, since he cannot live without him.
Love is a simple thing and a deep thing: it is an act of life and not an illusion. Art is an illusion.
I am justified. For I chose good and evil; and now there is no evil; and wisdom and good are one. It is enough.
All government is cruel; for nothing is so cruel as impunity.
The United States and Great Britain are two countries separated by a common language.
The only time my education was interrupted was when I was in school.
If you're going to tell people the truth, you better make them laugh; otherwise they'll kill you.
In my view, Anglo-Irish history is for Englishmen to remember, for Irishmen to forget.
A: Would you sleep with me for 1,000,000$?
B: What do you think what a person I am?
Shaw's plays are the price we pay for Shaw's prefaces.
Shaw does not merely decorate a proposition, but makes his way from point to point through new and difficult territory.
The writers of our century delight in the weaknesses of the human condition; the only one capable of inventing heroes was Bernard Shaw.
What a debt every intelligent being owes to Bernard Shaw!
One may say that he Shaw did much good and some harm. As an iconoclast he was admirable, but as an eikon rather less so.
