You don't get everything you want. A dictatorship would be a lot easier.
I've heard the call. I believe God wants me to run for President.
Our military and our nation are entering another period of consequences – a time of rapid change and momentous choices.
Rarely is the question asked,... our... is our children learning?
This is Preservation Month. I appreciate preservation. It's what you do when you run for president. You've got to preserve.
What we Republicans should stand for is growth in the economy. We ought to make the pie higher.
The state can do what they want to do. Don't try to trap me in this state's issue like you're trying to get me into.
I care what 51 percent of the people think about me.
More and more of our imports come from overseas.
I will have a foreign-handed foreign policy.
I know the human being and the fish can coexist peacefully.
If we're an arrogant nation, they'll resent us; if we're a humble nation, but strong, they'll welcome us.
Families is where our nation finds hope, where wings take dream.
This is an impressive crowd — the haves and the have-mores. Some people call you the elites; I call you my base.
...they want the federal government controlling Social Security, like it's some kind of federal program.
My plan reduces the national debt, and fast. So fast, in fact, that economists worry that we're going to run out of debt to retire.
My administration is committed to a leadership role on the issue of climate change.
It was amazing I won. I was running against peace and prosperity and incumbency.
My administration has a job to do and we're going to do it. We will rid the world of the evil-doers.
This crusade, this war on terrorism is going to take a while.
You are either with us or you are against us in the fight against terror.
But all in all, it's been a fabulous year for Laura and me.
We did not ask for this mission, but we will fulfill it.
We are working hard to convince both the Indians and the Pakis there's a way to deal with their problems without going to war.
For too long our culture has said, "If it feels good, do it." Now America is embracing a new ethic and a new creed: "Let's roll".
I just want you to know that, when we talk about war, we're really talking about peace.
I call upon all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers. Thank you. Now watch this drive.
"The best ethics course is to handcuff one of the bastards."
After all, this is a guy that tried to kill my dad at one time.
I don't know why you're talking about Sweden. They're the neutral one. They don't have an army.
I said you were a man of peace. I want you to know I took immense crap for that.
The United States is committed to the worldwide elimination of torture and we are leading this fight by example.
There are some who feel like that, you know, the conditions are such that they can attack us there. My answer is, bring 'em on.
See, free nations are peaceful nations. Free nations don't attack each other. Free nations don't develop weapons of mass destruction.
Saddam's rape rooms and torture chambers and children's prisons are closed forever. His mass graves will claim no victims.
My Geordie is probably just about as bad as my English.
The people have given us the duty to defend them, and that duty sometimes requires the violent restraint of violent men.
Captain Brown was correct: America's space program will go on.
We call upon the international community to join with us in helping to realize a better future for the Iraqi people.
We are doing everything we can to avoid war in Iraq. But if Saddam Hussein does not disarm peacefully, he will be disarmed by force.
The establishment of a free Iraq at the heart of the Middle East will be a watershed event in the global democratic revolution.
We cannot rely exclusively on military power to assure our long-term security. Lasting peace is gained as justice and democracy advance.
May God bless the people of Iraq, and may God bless America.
No President has ever done more for human rights than I have.
I fully understand it takes time for free societies, truly free societies to evolve. I don't expect instant success.
Those weapons of mass destruction have got to be somewhere... Nope, no weapons over there... Maybe under here.
There are no longer torture chambers or rape rooms or mass graves in Iraq.
That's why I cut the taxes on everybody. I didn't cut them. The Congress cut them. I asked them to cut them.
In this different kind of war, we may never sit down at a peace table. But make no mistake about it, we are winning, and we will win.
I believe it is the job of a President to confront problems, not pass them on to future Presidents and future generations.
I hear there's rumors on the internets pause that we're going to have a draft. We're not going to have a draft, period.
I wasn't happy when we found out there wasn't weapons of mass destruction in Iraq
Our health care system is the envy of the world.
I just don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. It's kind of one of those exaggerations.
I made it very plain: We will not have an all-volunteer army. Crowd boos Let me restate that. We will not have a draft. Crowd Cheers
A political candidate who jumps to conclusions without knowing the facts is not a person you want as your commander in chief.
Now that I've got the will of the people at my back, I'm going to start enforcing the one-question rule. That was three questions.
Again, he violated the one-question rule right off the bat. Obviously, you didn't listen to the will of the people.
America would do it again for our friends.
And as a result of the United States military, Taliban no longer is in existence.
The security of our world is found in the advancing rights of mankind.
The advance of liberty is the path to both a safer and better world.
We had an accountability moment, and that's called the 2004 elections.
"Hello, what's your name?"  "My name is Mr. Fischer, what's your name?"  "Bush. I'm Mr. Bush."
I was going to say he's a piece of work, but that might not translate too well. Is that all right, if I call you a 'piece of work'?
Thank you. God told me to wear it.  That's a joke.
Because free peoples believe in the future, free peoples will own the future.
Any government that chooses to be an ally of terror has also chosen to be an enemy of civilization.
In Iraq, there is no peace without victory. We will keep our nerve and we will win that victory.
My conviction comes down to this: we do not create terrorism by fighting the terrorists. We invite terrorism by ignoring them.
To retreat before victory would be an act of recklessness and dishonor and I will not allow it.
One of the hardest parts of my job is to connect Iraq with the war on terror.
I would say the best moment of all was when I caught a 7.5 pound largemouth bass in my lake.
Eventually, these people will have trials and they will have counsel and they will be represented in a court of law.
Liberty can be delayed, but it cannot be denied.
See, the irony is, what they need to do is get Syria to get Hezbollah to stop doing this shit and it's over.
Well, I'm reading about the battle of New Orleans right now. I’ve got an ecolectic ''(sic)'' reading list.
Look, the key for me is to keep expectations low.
Both those men are doing fantastic jobs and I strongly support them.
You know, I think an interesting construct that General Peter Pace uses is, "We're not winning, we're not losing."
Destroying human life in the hopes of saving human life is not ethical...
I've heard he's been called Bush's poodle. He's bigger than that.
(He) … said he'd like to be there but "One, I'm too old to be out there, and two, they would notice me."
As yesterday's positive report card shows, childrens do learn when standards are high and results are measured.
Wait, what did you just say? You're predicting $4 a gallon gasoline?. . . That's interesting. I hadn't heard that.
I hadn’t heard that.... I, frankly, have been focused elsewhere, like on gasoline prices.
It's viewed as an anti-Russian device. Well, it's not.
Goodbye, from the world's biggest polluter.
If money isn't loosened up, this sucker could go down.
I suspected there would be a good-size crowd once the word got out about my hanging.
No, I think you have to earn your way into politics. I don't think that anything is ever given to you.
I don't know where he Osama Bin Laden is. I have no idea and I really don't care.
The most important thing is for us to find Osama bin Laden. It is our number one priority and we will not rest until we find him.
I trust God speaks through me. Without that, I couldn't do my job.
The problem with the French is that they don't have a word for "entrepreneur."
We will export death and violence to the four corners of the earth in defense of our great nation.
Numerous remarks that were previously attributed (in some cases correctly) to Dan Quayle
Stop throwing the Constitution in my face. It's just a goddamned piece of paper!
I hate the way President Bush walks--shoulders flexed, elbows splayed out from his sides like a teenage boy feigning machismo.
''El diablo está en casa. Ayer estuvo el diablo aquí, en este mismo lugar. Huele a azufre todavía.''
Do as George Bush said, not as he didn't do.
He knows I have nothing, no mass weapons. He knows he'll never find them.
This is the dysfunctions and motivations of the Bush administration laid bare.
In a 2003 poll, most Indonesians had a higher opinion of Osama bin Laden than they did of George W. Bush.
US President Bush is a great leader, great friend of Israel and a source of inspiration.
I think he's a man of good intentions. I don't doubt it. But I think he's leading us in the wrong direction.
This is the worst president ever. He is the worst president in all of American history.
Whether you love or loathe George W. Bush, you can not deny that he has learned how to read a teleprompter.
