Do you know, a horrible thing has happened to me. I have begun to doubt Tennyson.
I think that the trivialness of life is, and personally to each one, ought to be seen to be, done away with by the Incarnation.
All the world is full of inscape and chance left free to act falls into an order as well as purpose.
Our Lord Christ, my brethren, is our hero, a hero all the world wants.
For myself I make no secret, I look forward with eager desire to seeing the matchless beauty of Christ’s body in the heavenly light.
It kills me to be time’s eunuch and never to beget.
A great work by an Englishman is like a great battle won by England. It is an unfading bay tree.
Beauty … is a relation, and the apprehension of it a comparison.
Elected Silence, sing to me And beat upon my whorlèd ear, Pipe me to pastures still and be The music that I care to hear.
Hope had grown grey hairs, Hope had mourning on, Trenched with tears, carved with cares, Hope was twelve hours gone.
Abel is Cain's brother and breasts they have sucked the same.
There lives the dearest freshness deep down things.
Glory be to God for dappled things— For skies of couple-colour as a brinded cow; For rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim.
I walk, I lift up, I lift up heart, eyes, Down all that glory in the heavens to glean our Saviour.
Lovely the woods, waters, meadows, combes, vales, All the air things wear that build this world of Wales.
Ask of her, the mighty mother: Her reply puts this other Question: What is Spring?— Growth in everything.
Margaret, are you grieving Over Goldengrove unleaving?
Give beauty back, beauty, beauty, beauty, back to God, beauty's self and beauty's giver.
I say that we are wound With mercy round and round As if with air.
World-mothering air, air wild, Wound with thee, in thee isled, Fold home, fast fold thy child.
That night, that year Of now done darkness I wretch lay wrestling with (my God!) my God.
No worst, there is none. Pitched past pitch of grief, More pangs will, schooled at forepangs, wilder wring.
O the mind, mind has mountains; cliffs of fall Frightful, sheer, no-man-fathomed. Hold them cheap May who ne'er hung there.
Here! creep, Wretch, under a comfort serves in a whirlwind: all Life death does end and each day dies with sleep.
I wake and feel the fell of dark, not day. What hours, O what black hoürs we have spent This night!
Natural heart’s ivy, Patience masks Our ruins of wrecked past purpose.
Mine, O thou lord of life, send my roots rain.
The best ideal is the true And other truth is none. All glory be ascribed to The holy Three in One.
He is so great that all things give him glory if you mean they should. So then, my brethren, live.
Searching nature I taste self but at one tankard, that of my own being.
