A narcissist is someone better looking than you are.
Never pass up a chance to have sex or appear on television.
Congress no longer declares war or makes budgets. So that's the end of the constitution as a working machine.
Apparently, "conspiracy stuff" is now shorthand for unspeakable truth.
We must always remember that the police are recruited from the criminal classes.
American writers want to be not good but great; and so are neither.
There is something about a bureaucrat that does not like a poem.
I'm all for bringing back the birch, but only between consenting adults.
Whenever a friend succeeds, a little something in me dies.
Envy is the central fact of American life.
First coffee, then a bowel movement. Then the Muse joins me.
It is not enough to succeed. Others must fail.
I can understand companionship. I can understand bought sex in the afternoon, but I cannot understand the love affair.
As one gets older, litigation replaces sex.
At any given moment, public opinion is a chaos of superstition, misinformation, and prejudice.
The more money an American accumulates the less interesting he himself becomes.
That peculiarly American religion, President-worship.
The United States was founded by the brightest people in the country — and we haven't seen them since.
Precocious talents mature slowly if at all.
In any case, write what you know will always be excellent advice to those who ought not to write at all.
Television is a great leveler. You always end up sounding like the people who ask the questions.
Religions are manipulated in order to serve those who govern society and not the other way around.
I suspect that one of the reasons we create fiction is to make sex exciting.
Half the American people never read a newspaper. Half never vote for President — the same half?
World events are the work of individuals whose motives are often frivolous, even casual.
Nothing that Shakespeare ever invented was to equal Lincoln's invention of himself and, in the process, us.
Celebrities are invariably celebrity-mad, just as liars always believe liars.
Nonprofit status is what created the Bible Belt. The tax code brought religion back to this country.
Never have children, only grandchildren.
