Seems, madam! Nay, it is; I know not "seems."
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt, Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew.
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of this world.
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
I'll speak to it though Hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice; Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy; For the apparel oft proclaims the man.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be: For loan oft loses both itself and friend.
This above all — to thine own self be true; And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man.
But to my mind, — though I am native here And to the manner born, — it is a custom More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
My hour is almost come When I to sulphrous and tormenting flames Must render up myself.
Murder most foul, as in the best it is; But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life Now wears his crown.
And each particular hair to stand on end, Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself — As I perchance hereafter shall think meet To put an antic disposition on.
The time is out of joint; O cursed spite, That ever I was born to set it right!
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit, And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, I will be brief.
That he is mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'tis pity; And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure; But farewell it, for I will use no art.
''Doubt thou the stars are fire; Doubt that the sun doth move; Doubt truth to be a liar; But never doubt I love.''
Polonius: What do you read, my lord? Hamlet: Words, words, words.
Polonius: ''Aside'' Though this be madness, yet there is method in 't. — Will you walk out of the air, my lord? Hamlet: Into my grave.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
I could be bounded in a nutshell, and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks.
Use every man after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba, That he should weep for her?
Soft you now! The fair Ophelia! — Nymph, in thy orisons Be all my sins remember'd.
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
I say, we will have no more marriages: those that are married already, — all but one, — shall live; the rest shall keep as they are.
O! what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
O, woe is me To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural; I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
O! my offence is rank, it smells to heaven.
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying; And now I'll do 't: and so he goes to heaven; And so am I reveng'd.
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below; Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Hamlet: How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead! Polonius: Oh, I am slain!
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell! I took thee for thy better.
Nay, but to live In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed, Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love Over the nasty sty.
I must be cruel, only to be kind: Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath, And breath of life, I have no life to breathe What thou hast said to me.
How all occasions do inform against me, And spur my dull revenge!
O! from this time forth, My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
We know what we are, but know not what we may be.
Good-night, ladies; good-night, sweet ladies; good-night, good-night.
When sorrows come, they come not single spies, But in battalions.
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia, And therefore I forbid my tears.
Lay her i' the earth: And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring!
I lov'd Ophelia: forty thousand brothers Could not, with all their quantity of love, Make up my sum.
There's a divinity that shapes our ends, Rough-hew them how we will.
Now cracks a noble heart. Good-night, sweet prince; And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage.
