Imagination is the voice of daring. If there is anything Godlike about God it is that. He dared to imagine everything.
The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously, drunkenly, serenely, divinely aware.
Take a good look at me. Now tell me, do you think I'm the sort of fellow who gives a fuck what happens once he's dead?
Confusion is a word we have invented for an order which is not understood.
If men cease to believe that they will one day become gods then they will surely become worms.
The history of the world is the history of a privileged few.
If we have not found heaven within, it is a certainty we will not find it without.
One’s destination is never a place, but rather a new way of looking at things.
Obscenity is a cleansing process, whereas pornography only adds to the murk.
She was to me, and still is, the greatest person I have known - one who can truly be called a "devoted" soul. ''I owe her everything.''
I have no money, no resources, no hopes. I am the happiest man alive.
I knew I wouldn't ever trade all this whirling about my head for Russia or heaven or anything on earth.
Any genuine philosophy leads to action and from action back again to wonder, to the enduring fact of mystery.
I hear not a word because she is beautiful and I love her and now I am happy & willing to die.
For some reason or other man looks for the miracle, and to accomplish it he will wade through blood.
Do anything, but let it produce joy. Do anything, but let it yield ecstasy.
I blush to think of our origins - our hands are steeped in Blood & Crime. And there is no letup to the slaughter and pillage.
The frantic desire to Live, to live at any cost, is not a result of the life rhythm in us, but of the death rhythm.
To be generous is to say yes before the man even opens his mouth.
I soon learned that one must give up everything and not do anything else but write, that one must write write write.
Every man is working out his destiny in his own way and nobody can be of any help except by being kind, generous, and patient.
The truly great writer does not want to write. He wants the world to be a place in which he can live the life of the imagination.
Writing is Crude hieroglyphs chiseled in pain & sorrow to commemorate an event which is intransmissible.
The Battle is endless...we who babble and froth at the mouth have been at it since eternity.
Perhaps the artist is nothing more than the personification of this universal maladjustment, this universal disequilibrium.
The whole damn universe has to be taken apart, brick by brick, and reconstructed.
I am against revolutions because they always involve a return to the status quo.
I am glad to be a maggot in the corpse which is the world.
Everything remains unsettled forever, depend on it.
The artist who becomes thoroughly aware consequently ceases to be one.
The trouble with Buddhism ?-- in order to free oneself of all desire, one has to desire to do so.
Lao Tse, Buddha, Gurdjiev, Krishnamurti.
