In the long run an opinion often borrows credit from the forbearance of its patrons.
Everything about Florence seems to be coloured with a mild violet, like diluted wine.
It takes a great deal of history to produce a little literature.
Cats and monkeys — monkeys and cats — all human life is there!
My choice is the old world — my choice, my need, my life.
Don't mind anything anyone tells you about anyone else. Judge everyone and everything for yourself.
She ordered a cup of tea, which proved excessively bad, and this gave her a sense that she was suffering in a romantic cause.
I hold any writer sufficiently justified who is himself in love with his theme.
Though there are some disagreeable things in Venice there is nothing so disagreeable as the visitors.
A tradition is kept alive only by something being added to it.
The superiority of one man's opinion over another's is never so great as when the opinion is about a woman.
The practice of "reviewing"… in general has nothing in common with the art of criticism.
She had an unequalled gift, especially pen in hand, of squeezing big mistakes into small opportunities.
The time-honored bread-sauce of the happy ending.
She was a woman who, between courses, could be graceful with her elbows on the table.
I'm glad you like adverbs — I adore them; they are the only qualifications I really much respect.
The full, the monstrous demonstration that Tennyson was not Tennysonian.
If I were to live my life over again, I would be an American. I would steep myself in America, I would know no other land.
Summer afternoon — summer afternoon; to me those have always been the two most beautiful words in the English language.
So here it is at last, the distinguished thing!
Three things in human life are important. The first is to be kind. The second is to be kind. And the third is to be kind.
The only reason for the existence of a novel is that it does attempt to represent life.
What is character but the determination of incident? What is incident but the illustration of character?
There are few things more exciting to me, in short, than a psychological reason.
The historian, essentially, wants more documents than he can really use; the dramatist only wants more liberties than he can really take.
We are divided of course between liking to feel the past strange and liking to feel it familiar.
The ever importunate murmur, "Dramatize it, dramatize it!"
The terrible ''fluidity'' of self-revelation.
Be not afraid of life. Believe that life ''is'' worth living, and your belief will help create the fact.
It's not that he "bites off more than he can chaw," as T. G. Appleton said of Nathan, but he chaws more than he bites off.
