Maybe that's what life is... a wink of the eye and winking stars.
Write in recollection and amazement for yourself
All is well, practice kindness, heaven is nigh.
You can't fight City Hall. It keeps changing its name.
All our best men are laughed at in this nightmare land.
As early pioneers in the knowing, that when you lose your reason, you attain highest perfect knowing.
So long and take it easy, because if you start taking things seriously, it is the end of you.
The fact that everybody in the world dreams every night ties all mankind together.
The tree looks like a dog, barking at heaven.
Everything belongs to me because I am poor.
All you do is head straight for the grave, a face just covers a skull awhile. Stretch that skull-cover and smile.
So I rushed past the pretty girls, and the prettiest girls in the world live in Des Moines.
Whither goest thou, America, in thy shiny car in the night?
At one point the driver said, "For angelic particulars that had been lurking in our lives.
Sociability is just a big smile, and a big smile is nothing but teeth.
I saw that my life was a vast glowing empty page and I could do anything I wanted.
The happiness consists in realizing that it is all a great strange dream.
I feel guilty for being a member of the human race.
And I will die, and you will die, and we all will die, and even the stars will fade out one after another in time.
Literature is no longer Necessary Teaching is left.
Soon I'll find the right words, they'll be very simple.
Caringosity killed the Kerouac cat.  Sometimes truth is stranger than fiction.
I read ''On the Road'' in maybe 1959. It changed my life like it changed everyone else's.
Some times feeling like Holden Caulfield, sometimes Jack Kerouac
Kerouac had lots of class — stumbling dope.
The world that Kerouac trembling stepped out into in that decade was a bitter, gray one.
I notice that there's a long gap in your job history and it said for 22 years you went Kerouac on everyone's ass?
He did more in one lifetime than most people do in ten.
