There is no heresy or no philosophy which is so abhorrent to the church as a human being.
Art is the human disposition of sensible or intelligible matter for an aesthetic end.
Christopher Columbus, as everyone knows, is honoured by posterity because he was the last to discover America.
You forget that the kingdom of heaven suffers violence: and the kingdom of heaven is like a woman.
The demand that I make of my reader is that he should devote his whole Life to reading my works.
My words in her mind: cold polished stones sinking through a quagmire.
There is not past, no future; everything flows in an eternal present.
I think I would know Nora's fart anywhere. I think I could pick hers out in a roomful of farting women.
I had never spoken to her, except for a few casual words, and yet her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood.
But my body was like a harp and her words and gestures were like fingers running upon the wires.
Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and derided by vanity; and my eyes burned with anguish and anger.
She dealt with moral problems the way a cleaver deals with meat: and in this case she had made up her mind.
History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.
The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit. (683)
Boor, bond of thy herd, Tonight stretch full by the fire!
Frail the white rose and frail are Her hands that gave 
How soft, how sad his voice is ever calling, Ever unanswered, and the dark rain falling,
The fragrant hair, Falling as through the silence falleth now Dusk of the air.
Around us fear, descending Darkness of fear above
And mine a shielded heart for her Who gathers simples of the moon.
Vast wings above the lambent waters brood Of sullen day.
The sly reeds whisper to the night A name — her name —
Your lean jaws grin with. Lash Your itch and quailing, nude greed of the flesh.
But all they are all there scraping along to sneeze out a likelihood that will solve and salve life's robulous rebus (12.32-33)
bababadalgharaghtakamminarronnkonnbronntonnerronntuonnthunntrovarrhounawnskawntoohoohoordenenthurnuk!
I am a worker, a tombstone mason, anxious to pleace averyburies and jully glad when Christmas comes his once ayear.
'Tis as human a little story as paper could well carry (115.36)
A Place for Everything and Everything in its Place, Is the Pen Mightier than the Sword? A Successful Career in the Civil Service.
In the name of the former and of the latter and of their holocaust. Allmen. (419.9-10)
He comes into the world God knows how, walks on the water, gets out of his grave and goes up off the Hill of Howth. What drivel is this?
And Joyce was a poor sick fucker who probably died with his balls somewhere up around his navel. None of that for me, thanks.
Irresponsibility is part of the pleasure of all art; it is the part the schools cannot recognize.
I am tomorrow, or some future day, what I establish today. I am today what I established yesterday or some previous day.
The actions of men are the best interpreters of their thoughts.
Men are governed by lines of intellect - women: by curves of emotion.
