Here I am once more in this scene of dissipation and vice, and I begin already to find my morals corrupted.
What dreadful hot weather we have! It keeps one in a continual state of inelegance.
Next week I shall begin my operations on my hat, on which you know my principal hopes of happiness depend.
I do not want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of liking them a great deal.
You deserve a longer letter than this; but it is my unhappy fate seldom to treat people so well as they deserve.
I am rather impatient to know the fate of my best gown.
I cannot help thinking that it is more natural to have flowers grow out of the head than fruit.
We are to have a tiny party here tonight. I hate tiny parties, they force one into constant exertion.
You know how interesting the purchase of a sponge-cake is to me.
The pleasures of friendship, of unreserved conversation, of similarity of taste and opinions will make good amends for orange wine.
I give you joy of our new nephew, and hope if he ever comes to be hanged it will not be till we are too old to care about it.
How horrible it is to have so many people killed! And what a blessing that one cares for none of them!
I will not say that your mulberry-trees are dead, but I am afraid they are not alive.
Mr. Digweed has used us basely. Handsome is as handsome does; he is therefore a very ill-looking man.
I would recommend to her and Mr. D. the simple regimen of separate rooms.
Single women have a dreadful propensity for being poor, which is one very strong argument in favour of matrimony.
"I am afraid", replied Elinor, "that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety."
People always live forever when there is an annuity to be paid them.
To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love.
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
One cannot be always laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.
For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbors and laugh at them in our turn?
One does not love a place the less for having suffered in it, unless it has been all suffering, nothing but suffering.
A lady, without a family, was the very best preserver of furniture in the world.
It was, perhaps, one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides.
A large income is the best recipe for happiness I ever heard of.
We do not look in great cities for our best morality.
I speak what appears to me the general opinion; and where an opinion is general, it is usually correct.
Let other pens dwell on guilt and misery.
"I shall soon be rested," said Fanny; "to sit in the shade on a fine day, and look upon verdure, is the most perfect refreshment."
it will, I believe, be everywhere found, that as the clergy are, or are not what they ought to be, so are the rest of the nation.
But there certainly are not so many men of large fortune in the world as there are pretty women to deserve them.
One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other.
Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.
Surprizes are foolish things. The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable.
There are people who the more you do for them, the less they will do for themselves.
Ah! there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort.
One has not great hopes from Birmingham. I always say there is something direful in the sound...
A woman, especially if she has the misfortune of knowing anything, should conceal it as well as she can.
...from politics, it was an easy step to silence.
A very short trial convinced her that a curricle was the prettiest equipage in the world
Life seems but a quick succession of busy nothings.
She knew what she knew, like a sound dogmatist: she did not know what she did not — like a sound agnostic.
Every housemaid expects at least once a week as much excitement as would have lasted a Jane Austen heroine throughout a whole novel.
