Reports of my assimilation are greatly exaggerated.
The line must be drawn here! This far, no farther!
If there is one ideal that the Federation holds most dear, it is that all men, all races can be united.
If your issues are with me, then deal with me. This has nothing to do with my ship, nothing to do with the Federation!
If we're going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.
Things are only impossible until they're not!
No being is so important that he can usurp the rights of another.
It is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness; that is life.
Being first at any cost is not always the point.
Let's make sure history never forgets the name ... ''Enterprise''.
You may test that assumption at your convenience.
Imprisonment is an injury, regardless of how you justify it.
I am Locutus of Borg. Resistance is futile.
The road from legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think.
I'd be delighted to offer any advice I have on understanding women. When I have some, I'll let you know.
Seize the time... Live now! Make now always the most precious time. Now will never come again.
No, I am not dead. Because I refuse to believe the afterlife is run by you. The universe is not so badly designed!
There is a way out of every box, a solution to every puzzle; it's just a matter of finding it.
We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not for you to set the standards by which we should be judged!
So, five-card stud, nothing wild. And the sky's the limit.
Captain Picard, is the exact opposite of a Hollywood action-hero.
Picard stands as the bearer of Starfleet's conscience and an exemplar of moral autonomy.
Captain Picard is perceived to be a gentler soul than Captain Kirk.
The new captain of the Enterprise, Jean-Luc Picard, is the wise man. He rules the Enterprise with a sagely wisdom.
As shown in his speech and actions, Picard is a man of intelligence, courage, integrity, compassion, courtesy.
The bridge of the Enterprise, under the moderate and controlled command of Captain Picard, is a locus of "enlightened understanding." 
The new captain, Jean-Luc Picard, was French and enjoyed reading, classical music, William Shakespeare, archaeology, and theatre.
Captain Picard is not the swashbuckler that Captain Kirk was.
Only question I Ever thought was hard Was do I like Kirk, Or do I like Picard?
