Fascism is not defined by the number of its victims, but by the way it kills them.
Our responsibility is much greater than we might have supposed, because it involves all mankind.
If literature isn’t everything, it’s not worth a single hour of someone’s trouble.
What I see is teeming cohesion, contained dispersal…. For him, to sculpt is to take the fat off space.
She believed in nothing; only her skepticism kept her from being an atheist.
I hate victims who respect their executioners.
I exist. It is soft, so soft, so slow. And light: it seems as though it suspends in the air. It moves.
Three o'clock is always too late or too early for anything you want to do.
As if there could be true stories: things happen in one way, and we retell them in the opposite way.
The real nature of the present revealed itself: it was what exists, all that was not present did not exist.
Who can exhaust a man? Who knows a man’s resources?
For an occurrence to become an adventure, it is necessary and sufficient for one to recount it.
All that I know about my life, it seems, I have learned in books.
How can I, who was not able to retain my own past, hope to save that of another?
I exist, that is all, and I find it nauseating.
Every existing thing is born without reason, prolongs itself out of weakness and dies by chance.
To eat is to appropriate by destruction.
''L'existence précède et commande l'essence.''
All human activities are equivalent … and … all are on principle doomed to failure.
Man is condemned to be free; because once thrown into the world, he is responsible for everything he does.
It is certain that we cannot escape anguish, for we are anguish.
Fear? If I have gained anything by damning myself, it is that I no longer have anything to fear.
Ah! Do not judge the gods, young man, they have painful secrets.
Yes, I am so free. And what a superb absence is my soul.
You must be afraid, my son. That is how one becomes an honest citizen.
A man who is free is like a mangy sheep in a herd. He will contaminate my entire kingdom and ruin my work.
What do I care about Jupiter? Justice is a human issue, and I do not need a god to teach it to me.
All-powerful god, who am I but the fear that I inspire in others?
Blood doubly unites us, for we share the same blood and we have spilled blood.
But, if it will help ease your irritated souls, please know, dearly departed, that you have ruined our lives.
I have no need for good souls: an accomplice is what I wanted.
He is dead, and my hatred has died with him.
Ah! How I hate the crimes of the new generation: they are dry and sterile as darnel.
The painful secret of gods and kings is that men are free, Aegistheus. You know it and they do not.
Now I am weary and I can no longer tell good from Evil, and I need someone to show me the way.
I am a man, Jupiter, and each man must invent his own path.
...man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world – and defines himself afterwards.
It is better; heavier, crueler. The mouth you wear for hell.
You have stolen my face from me: you know it and I no longer do.
Don’t you feel the same way? When I cannot see myself, even though I touch myself, I wonder if I really exist.
If only you knew how little I care. Cowardly or not, as long as he is a good kisser.
The more one is absorbed in fighting evil, the less one is tempted to place the good in question.
As for us, my little friend, we entered the Communist Party because we were tired of dying of hunger.
I respect orders but I respect myself too and I do not obey foolish rules made especially to humiliate me.
I say a murder is abstract. You pull the trigger and after that you do not understand anything that happens.
Politics is a science. You can demonstrate that you are right and that others are wrong.
Intellectuals cannot be good revolutionaries; they are just good enough to be assassins.
As far as men go, it is not what they are that interests me, but what they can become.
I entered the Communist Party because its cause was just and I will leave it when it ceases to be just.
The best work is not what is most difficult for you; it is what you do best.
I tell you in truth: all men are Prophets or else God does not exist.
If you are not already dead, forgive. Rancor is heavy, it is worldly; leave it on earth: die light.
I know only one Church: it is the society of men.
If a victory is told in detail, one can no longer distinguish it from a defeat.
It is too early to love. We will buy the right to do so by shedding blood.
Your church is a whore: she sells her favors to the rich.
It is not the same thing. You are perhaps not lying, but you are not telling the truth.
''Quand les riches se font la guerre, ce sont les pauvres qui meurent.''
Ah! yes, I know: those who see me rarely trust my word: I must look too intelligent to keep it.
It is the same: a chosen one is a man whom God’s finger crushes against the wall.
I am not virtuous. Our sons will be if we shed enough blood to give them the right to be.
I will not be modest. Humble, as much as you like, but not modest. Modesty is the virtue of the lukewarm.
One cannot become a saint when one works sixteen hours a day.
Night is falling: at dusk, you must have good eyesight to be able to tell the Good Lord from the Devil.
''Adieu les monstres ! Adieu les saints ! Adieu l'orgueil ! Il n'y a que des hommes.''
Better to have beasts that let themselves be killed than men who run away.
The French bourgeois doesn’t dislike shit, provided it is served up to him at the right time.
"Everything is both a trap and a display; the secret reality of the object is what the Other makes of it."
