You know the day destroys the night, Night divides the day, Tried to run —  Tried to hide —  ''Break on through to the other side!'' 
It hurts to set you free, but you’ll never follow me.
When you're strange Faces come out of the rain When you're strange No one remembers your name When you're strange.
Five to one, baby  One in five No one here gets out alive, now You get yours, baby I'll get mine Gonna make it, baby If we try.
At first flash of Eden, We race down to the sea.  Standing there on Freedom's shore.  Waiting for the sun...
This is the strangest life I’ve ever known.
Killer on the road His brain is squirming like a toad.
Listen to this, and I'll tell you 'bout the heartache  I'll tell you 'bout the heartache and the loss of God.
I'll tell you this —  No eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn.
I think, in these days, especially in the States, you have to be a politician or an assassin or something, to really be a superstar.
(Windows work two ways, mirrors one way.)  You never walk through mirrors or swim through windows.
The world becomes an apparently infinite,  yet possibly finite, card game.  Image combinations,  permutations,  comprise the world game. 
The subject says "I see first lots of things which dance — then everything becomes gradually connected".
Few would defend a small view of mystical and physical work.
Do you dare  deny my  potency  my kindness  or forgiveness?
This is it  no more fun  the death of all joy  has come.
Let's reinvent the gods, all the myths of the ages  Celebrate symbols from deep elder forests
We have assembled inside this ancient  & insane theatre  To propagate our lust for life  & flee the swarming wisdom  of the streets
Resident mockery  give us an hour for magic
I'm sick of dour faces  Staring at me from the T.V.  Tower.  I want roses in  my garden bower; dig?
Death makes angels of us all  and gives us wings  where we had shoulders  smooth as raven's  claws 
I will not go  Prefer a  feast of Friends  To the Giant family
Always a playground instructor, never a Killer
Indian, Indian what did you die for? Indian says, nothing at all.
Lying on stained wretched sheets with the bleeding virgin,  we could plan a murder...or start a religion.
There are things known and there are things unknown, and in between are the doors of perception.
