I can't believe a guy that handsome wouldn't have some impact.
Why is Chelsea Clinton so ugly? Because her father is Janet Reno.
War is wretched beyond description, and only a fool or a fraud could sentimentalize its cruel reality.
I hate the gooks. I will hate them as long as I live.
I will not take the low road to the highest office in this land. I want the presidency in the best way, not the worst way.
By 2008, I think I might be ready to go down to the old soldiers home and await the cavalry charge there.
I don’t know if I would want him as vice president. He and I have the same strengths. But to serve in other capacities? Hell, yeah.
Chairman Mao, 'It's darkest before it's totally black.'
I would vote for a Muslim if he or she was the best candidate able to lead the country and defend our political values.
I'm glad whenever they cut interest rates, I wish interest rates were zero.
I think they put some lipstick on a pig, but it's still a pig.
I looked into his eyes and saw three letters: a K, a G and a B.
I love him dearly. On issues of economics and … family values, there's nobody that I know that's stronger.
I have a clear record, both publicly and privately, of saying Alito and Roberts are what we want on the Supreme Court.
As you know, there are Al-Qaeda operatives that are taken back into Iran, given training as leaders, and they're moving back into Iraq.
Let me say that no one has supported President Bush on Iraq more than I have.
We're no longer staring into the abyss of defeat and we can now look ahead to the genuine prospect of success.
Only a fool or a fraud talks tough or romantically about war.
And I stopped beating my wife just a couple of weeks ago…
The first telephones cost a thousand dollars and they were about that big! We all remember that!
There is nothing that's off the table. I have my positions and I'll articulate them. But nothing's off the table.
I will not raise your taxes, nor support a tax increase.
I think — I’ll have my staff get to you. It’s condominiums where — I’ll have them get to you.
I don't know if you could ever say, quote "mission accomplished," as much as you could say "Americans are out of harm's way."
America is the greatest force for good in the history of the world.
The US does not involve itself in what is happening in the world's largest democracy, nor does it intend to do so.
At least I don't plaster on the makeup like a trollop, you cunt.
Only an asshole would put together a budget like this. I wouldn't call you an asshole unless you really were an asshole.
Luckily, I agree with my party more than Senator McCain agrees with his party.
It's not change when John McCain decided to stand with George Bush 95 percent of the time, as he did in the Senate last year.
John started carousing and running around with women.
Just because a candidate's opponent says something is true about that candidate doesn't necessarily mean you should lead with it.
I would never vote for anyone who thinks its funny to "Bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb Iran".
The problem for John McCain and George Bush is this: they have defined leaving as losing. Therefore, we cannot ever leave.
These times require more than a good soldier. They require a wise leader.
This is not the way a tested hero behaves. … It's like we caught him getting a manicure or something.
