I'd like to say "thank you" on behalf of the group and ourselves and I hope we passed the audition.
If you tried to give rock and roll another name, you might call it Chuck Berry.
I really thought that love would save us all.
Reality leaves a lot to the imagination.
Well, I just want him to grow up happy. That's the main thing.
If everyone demanded peace instead of another television set, then there'd be peace.
You have to be! (Laughs) You might get shot!
Part of me suspects that I'm a loser and the other part of me thinks I'm God Almighty.
Everything is as important as everything else.
I wouldn't say I was a born writer; I'm a born thinker.
Happiness is just how you feel when you don't feel miserable.
She forced me to become ''avant-garde'' and take my clothes off, when all I wanted was to be Tom Jones.
Sitting on a cornflake, waiting for the van to come.
These memories lose their meaning  When I think of love as something new.
All we are saying is give peace a chance!
For the benefit of Mr. Kite  there will be a show tonight on trampoline.
Half of what I say is meaningless But I say it just to reach you Julia.
When I cannot sing my heart, I can only speak my mind.
You say you want a Revolution; you better get it on right away.
Christ, you know it ain't easy You know how hard it can be.  The way things are going,  they're going to crucify me.
The newspapers said, "Say, what you're doing in bed?" I said "We're only trying to get us some peace."
Mother, you had me, but I never had you.
They hate you if you're clever, and they despise a fool.
God is a concept by which we measure our pain.
How can I give love when I don't know what it is I'm giving?
''Yes'' is the answer and you know that for sure.  Yes is surrender, you got to let it, you got to let it go…
I want you to make love, not war — I know you've heard it before.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
I know you understand the little child inside of your man.
"You grow with music, or the music outgrows you." - attributed to Lennon, but no verifiable source found
Was it a millionaire who said "Imagine no possessions"?
John loved and prayed for the human race. Please pray the same for him.
