I work for a Government I despise for ends I think criminal.
In truth, the gold standard is already a barbarous relic.
Words ought to be a little wild, for they are the assault of thoughts on the unthinking.
Nothing mattered except states of mind, chiefly our own.
The old saying holds. Owe your banker £1000 and you are at his mercy; owe him £1 million and the position is reversed.
The power to become habituated to his surroundings is a marked characteristic of mankind.
The duty of "saving" became nine-tenths of virtue and the growth of the cake the object of true religion.
He had one illusion — France; and one disillusion — mankind, including Frenchmen, and his colleagues not least.
The glory of the nation you love is a desirable end, — but generally to be obtained at your neighbor's expense.
But the dreams of designing diplomats do not always prosper, and we must trust the future.
Perhaps it is historically true that no order of society ever perishes save by its own hand.
Economic privation proceeds by easy stages, and so long as men suffer it patiently the outside world cares little.
The forces of the nineteenth century have run their course and are exhausted.
If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not limp.
A study of the history of opinion is a necessary preliminary to the emancipation of the mind.
I do not know which makes a man more conservative — to know nothing but the present, or nothing but the past.
Most men love money and security more, and creation and construction less, as they get older.
If economists could manage to get themselves thought of as humble, competent people on a level with dentists, that would be splendid.
The next move is with the head, and fists must wait.
Ricardo! There is something about these three figures to evoke more than ordinary sentiments from us their children in the spirit.
There is no harm in being sometimes wrong — especially if one is promptly found out.
There were endless possibilities, not out of reach.
The atomic hypothesis which had worked so splendidly in Physics breaks down in Psychics.
Logic, like lyrical poetry, is no employment for the middle-aged,
I don't feel the least humble before the vastness of the heavens.
His peculiar gift was the power of holding continuously in his mind a purely mental problem until he had seen it through.
All production is for the purpose of ultimately satisfying a consumer.
Obstinacy can bring only a penalty and no reward.
Two pyramids, two masses for the dead, are twice as good as one; but not so two railways from London to York.
Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally.
The social object of skilled investment should be to defeat the dark forces of time and ignorance which envelope our future.
We are, as I have said, one equation short.
''For the importance of money essentially flows from its being a link between the present and the'' ''future.''
We reach a condition where there is a shortage of houses, but where nevertheless no one can afford to live in the houses that there are.
I am myself impressed by the great social advantages of increasing the stock of capital until it ceases to be scarce.
I believe that the future will learn more from the spirit of Gesell than from that of Marx.
But whilst there may be intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of land, there are no intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of capital.
The avoidance of taxes is the only intellectual pursuit that still carries any reward.
Education is the inculcation of the incomprehensible into the ignorant by the incompetent.
I don't really start until I get my proofs back from the printers. Then I can begin my serious writing.
When my information changes, I alter my conclusions. What do you do, sir?
Successful investing is anticipating the anticipations of others.
Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent.
We will not have any more crashes in our time.
It is better to be roughly right than precisely wrong.
I think it is pretty hard to explain most governments’ responses to the crisis and recession without a healthy dose of Keynes.
No one in our age was cleverer than Keynes nor made less attempt to conceal it.
Keynes is not just for the foxhole, but for the emerging world order.
''James M. Buchanan and Richard E. Wagner
