In drear-nighted December, Too happy, happy tree, Thy branches ne'er remember Their green felicity.
None can usurp this height... But those to whom the miseries of the world Are misery, and will not let them rest.
Here lies one whose name was writ in water.
"My chest of books divide amongst my friends."
The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone! Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast.
The imagination may be compared to Adam's dream — he awoke and found it truth.
O for a life of Sensations rather than of Thoughts!
They will explain themselves — as all poems should do without any comment.
Nothing is finer for the purposes of great productions than a very gradual ripening of the intellectual powers.
Scenery is fine — but human nature is finer.
Every mental pursuit takes its reality and worth from the ardour of the pursuer.
There is an awful warmth about my heart like a load of immortality.
I think I shall be among the English Poets after my death.
Call the world if you please "The vale of soul-making."
I have nothing to speak of but my self-and what can I say but what I feel
You might curb your magnanimity, and be more of an artist, and load every rift of your subject with ore.
I can scarcely bid you good-bye, even in a letter. I always made an awkward bow. God bless you!
And then there crept A little noiseless noise among the leaves, Born of the very sigh that silence heaves.
Open afresh your round of starry folds, Ye ardent marigolds!
Woman! when I behold thee flippant, vain, Inconstant, childish, proud, and full of fancies.
To one who has been long in city pent, ’Tis very sweet to look into the fair And open face of heaven.
E’en like the passage of an angel’s tear That falls through the clear ether silently.
Stop and consider! life is but a day; A fragile dew-drop on its perilous way From a tree’s summit.
O for ten years, that I may overwhelm Myself in poesy; so I may do the deed That my own soul has to itself decreed.
A drainless shower Of light is poesy; ’tis the supreme of power; ’Tis might half slumb’ring on its own right arm.
There is not a fiercer hell than the failure in a great object.
In spite of all, Some shape of beauty moves away the pall From our dark spirits.
O magic sleep! O comfortable bird, That broodest o’er the troubled sea of the mind Till it is hush’d and smooth!
Time, that aged nurse, Rocked me to patience.
Pleasure is oft a visitant; but pain Clings cruelly to us.
He ne'er is crown'd With immortality, who fears to follow  Where airy voices lead.
'Tis the pest Of love, that fairest joys give most unrest.
The days of peace and slumberous calm are fled.
For to bear all naked truths, And to envisage circumstance, all calm, That is the top of sovereignty.
Love in a hut, with water and a crust, Is — Love, forgive us! — cinders, ashes, dust.
“For cruel ’tis,” said she, “To steal my Basil-pot away from me.”
So let me be thy choir, and make a moan Upon the midnight hours
Music's golden tongue Flatter'd to tears this aged man and poor.
The silver snarling trumpets 'gan to chide.
Sudden a thought came like a full-blown rose, Flushing his brow, and in his pained heart Made purple riot.
A poor, weak, palsy-stricken, churchyard thing.
As though a tongueless nightingale should swell Her throat in vain, and die, heart-stifled, in her dell.
As though a rose should shut and be a bud again.
And still she slept an azure-lidded sleep, In blanched linen, smooth, and lavender’d.
He play'd an ancient ditty long since mute, In Provence call'd "La belle dame sans mercy."
And they are gone: ay, ages long ago These lovers fled away into the storm.
And mid-May’s eldest child, The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine, The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves.
Forlorn! the very word is like a bell To toil me back from thee to my sole self!
Was it a vision, or a waking dream? Fled is that music: — Do I wake or sleep?
A very odd young man, but good-tempered, and good-hearted, and very clever indeed.
Keats was the very soul of courage and manliness, and as much like the ''holy Ghost'' as ''Johnny Keats''.
