conscientious objector enjoys the same reputation and prestige that the warrior does today.
NAURO NATIVE KNOWS POSIT &nbsp; HE CAN PILOT &nbsp; 11 ALIVE &nbsp; NEED SMALL BOAT &nbsp; KENNEDY
If more politicians knew poetry, and more poets knew politics, I am convinced the world would be a little better place in which to live.
Variant: In the Chinese language, the word "crisis" is composed of two characters, one representing danger and the other, opportunity.
We celebrate the past to awaken the future.
My call is not to those who believe they belong to the past. My call is to those who believe in the future.
The Federal Budget can and should be made an instrument of prosperity and stability, not a deterrent to recovery.
The great revolution in the history of man, past, present and future, is the revolution of those determined to be free.
If all of you had voted the other way - there's about 5500 of you here tonight - I would not be the President of the United States.
We have become more and more not a nation of athletes but a nation of spectators.
We must use time as a tool, not as a couch.
I wonder how it is with you, Harold? If I don't have a woman for three days, I get terrible headaches.
The strength of the alliance on which our security depends is dependent in turn on our willingness to meet our commitments to them.
And as Americans know from our history on our own old frontier, gun battles are caused by outlaws, and not by officers of the peace.
And if there is one path above all others to war, it is the path of weakness and disunity.
Disarmament without checks is but a shadow--and a community without law is but a shell.
The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining--by filling three basic gaps in our anti-recession protection.
Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.
It's only when they join together in a forward movement that this country moves ahead...
Bullfight critics row on row  Fill the enormous Plaza de toros  But only one is there who knows  And he is the one who fights the bull.
We have had our failures, but so have others, even if they do not admit them. And they may be less public.
The 1930's taught us a clear lesson: aggressive conduct, if allowed to go unchecked and unchallenged ultimately leads to war.
A man may die, nations may rise and fall, but an idea lives on. Ideas have endurance without death.
O God, thy sea is so great and my boat is so small.
Dante once said that the hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in a period of moral crisis, maintain their neutrality.
Children are the world's most valuable resource and its best hope for the future.
I want to drink a cup of tea to all those Kennedys who went and all those Kennedys who stayed.
Things don't just happen, they are made to happen.
We can say with some assurance that, although children may be the victims of fate, they will not be the victims of our neglect.
This nation has tossed its cap over the wall of space, and we have no choice but to follow it.
This country cannot afford to be materially rich and spiritually poor.
As the idealism of our youth has served world peace, so can it serve the domestic tranquility.
For the unity of freedom has never relied on uniformity of opinion.
While we shall never weary in the defense of freedom, neither shall we ever abandon the pursuit of peace.
Certain other societies may respect the rule of force--we respect the rule of law.
No government or social system is so evil that its people must be considered as lacking in virtue.
The quality and spirit of our own society must justify and support our efforts abroad.
Partnership is not a posture but a process-a continuous process that grows stronger each year as we devote ourselves to common tasks.
We must first bring others to see their own true interests better than they do today.
Secondly, what does justice require? In the end, it requires liberty.
This right of free choice is no special privilege claimed by the Germans alone. It is an elemental requirement of human justice.
The truth doesn't die. The desire for liberty cannot be fully suppressed.
But life is never easy. There is work to be done and obligations to be met--obligations to truth, to justice, and to liberty.
Privilege is here, and with privilege goes responsibility.
A nation reveals itself not only by the men it produces but also by the men it honors, the men it remembers.
Civilization, it was once said, is a race between education and catastrophe--and we intend to win that race for education.
So let us not be petty when our cause is so great. Let us not quarrel amongst ourselves when our Nation’s future is at stake.
All my life I've known better than to depend on the experts. How could I have been so stupid, to let them go ahead?
I have a nice home, the office is close by, and the pay is good.
I was assured by every son of a bitch I checked with — all the military experts and the CIA — that the plan would succeed.
Forgive your enemies, but never forget their names.
A wall is a hell of a lot better than a war.
I think 'Hail to the Chief' has a nice ring to it.
One person can make a difference, and every person should try.
Jack ought to show a little less profile and a little more courage.
Kennedy was at the hawkish end of the administration.
