Satire is a sort of glass, wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through.
There is nothing in this world constant, but inconstancy.
There are few, very few, that will own themselves in a mistake, though all the World sees them to be in downright nonsense.
'Tis very warm weather when one's in bed.
We are so fond of one another, because our ailments are the same.
I love good creditable acquaintance; I love to be the worst of the company.
…one enemy can do more hurt, than ten friends can do good.
But nothing is so hard for those who abound in riches, as to conceive how others can be in want.
'Tis an old maxim in the schools, That flattery's the food of fools; Yet now and then your men of wit Will condescend to take a bit.
Proper words in proper places, make the true definition of a style.
Reasoning will never make a man correct an ill opinion, which by reasoning he never acquired...
If Heaven had looked upon riches to be a valuable thing, it would not have given them to such a scoundrel.
So weak thou art, that fools thy power despise; And yet so strong, thou triumph'st o'er the wise.
''Libertas et natale solum'': Fine words! I wonder where you stole 'em.
For conversation well endued; She calls it witty to be rude; And, placing raillery in railing, Will tell aloud your greatest failing.
Not die here in a rage, like a poisoned rat in a hole.
Then gave him some familiar Thumps, A College Joke to cure the Dumps.
Pedantry is properly the over-rating of any kind of knowledge we pretend to.
Pride, ill nature, and want of sense, are the three great sources of ill manners.
I shall be like that tree; I shall die from the top.
Reason is a very light rider and easily shook off.
''Ubi saeva indignatio ulterius cor lacerare nequit''
It is a maxim, that those to whom everybody allows the second place have an undoubted title to the first.
As boys do sparrows, with flinging salt upon their tails.
He made it a part of his religion never to say grace to his meat.
We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another.
Every man desires to live long, but no man would be old.
Vision is the art of seeing things invisible.
What they do in heaven we are ignorant of; what they do not we are told expressly: that they neither marry, nor are given in marriage.
The Stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires, is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes.
The power of fortune is confessed only by the miserable; for the happy impute all their success to prudence or merit.
The latter part of a wise man’s life is taken up in curing the follies, prejudices, and false opinions he had contracted in the former.
Men are contented to be laughed at for their wit, but not for their folly.
Ambition often puts men upon doing the meanest offices; so climbing is performed in the same posture with creeping.
The reason why so few marriages are happy is because young ladies spend their time in making nets, not in making cages.
Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent.
Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age…
I never wonder to see men wicked, but I often wonder to see them not ashamed.
The Bulk of mankind is as well equipped for flying as thinking.
Complaint is the largest tribute heaven receives, and the sincerest part of our devotion.
When a true genius appears in the world you may know him by this sign; that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.
He is taller by almost the breadth of my nail, than any of his court, which alone is enough to strike an awe into the beholders.
I said the thing which was not. (For they have no word in their language to express lying or falsehood.)
Poor Nations are hungry, and rich Nations are proud, and Pride and Hunger will ever be at Variance.
A soldier is a Yahoo (man) hired to kill in cold blood as many of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he can.
I told him...that we ate when we were not hungry, and drank without the provocation of thirst.
As learned commentators view In Homer more than Homer knew.
So geographers, in Afric maps, With savage pictures fill their gaps, And o'er unhabitable downs Place elephants for want of towns.
Where Young must torture his invention To flatter knaves, or lose his pension.
Hobbes clearly proves that every creature Lives in a state of war by nature.
Do you think I was born in a wood to be afraid of an owl?
I hate nobody: I am in charity with the world.
I won't quarrel with my bread and butter.
She's no chicken; she's on the wrong side of thirty, if she be a day.
She looks as if butter wou'dn't melt in her mouth.
If it had been a bear it would have bit you.
She wears her clothes, as if they were thrown on her with a pitchfork.
Promises and pie-crust are made to be broken.
Lord M. What religion is he of? Lord Sp. Why, he is an Anythingarian.
He was a bold man that first ate an oyster.
That's as well said, as if I had said it myself.
Fingers were made before forks, and hands before knives.
She has more goodness in her little finger, than he has in his whole body.
Lord, I wonder what fool it was that first invented kissing!
They say a carpenter 's known by his chips.
The best doctors in the world are Doctor Diet, Doctor Quiet, and Doctor Merryman.
I'll give you leave to call me anything, if you don't call me "spade".
I have fed like a farmer: I shall grow as fat as a porpoise.
I know Sir John will go, though he was sure it would rain cats and dogs.
I thought you and he were hand-in-glove.
Better belly burst than good liquor be lost.
'T is happy for him that his father was before him.
There is none so blind as they that won't see.
She watches him as a cat would watch a mouse.
It is useless to attempt to reason a man out of a thing he was never reasoned into.
There is, indeed, no wild beast more to be dreaded than a communicative man having nothing to communicate.
As love without esteem is volatile and capricious; esteem without love is languid and cold.
