Ideas are more powerful than guns. We would not let our enemies have guns, why should we let them have ideas?
We think that a powerful and vigorous movement is impossible without differences — "true conformity" is possible only in the cemetery.
A sincere diplomat is like dry water or wooden iron.
The press must grow day in and day out — it is our Party's sharpest and most powerful weapon.
Bukharin's a swine and surely worse than a swine because he thinks it below his dignity to write a couple of lines.
If the opposition disarms, all is well and good. If it refuses to disarm, we shall disarm it ourselves.
We do not want a single foot of foreign territory; but of our territory we shall not surrender a single inch to anyone.
Anti-Semitism, as an extreme form of racial chauvinism, is the most dangerous vestige of cannibalism.
Life has improved, comrades. Life has become more joyous.
Education is a weapon whose effects depend on who holds it in his hands and at whom it is aimed.
History shows that there are no invincible armies and that there never have been.
Ours is a just cause; victory will be ours!
Hitlers come and go, but Germany and the German people remain.
You know, they are fooling us, there is no God.
This creature softened my heart of stone. She died and with her died my last warm feelings for humanity.
The writer is the engineer of the human soul.
Gratitude is a sickness suffered by dogs.
The Pope! How many divisions has he got?
So the bastard's dead? Too bad we didn't capture him alive!
The idea of a concentration camp is excellent.
In the Soviet Army, it takes more courage to retreat than advance.
God is on your side? Is He a Conservative? The Devil's on my side, he's a good Communist.
Do you remember the tsar? Well, I‘m like a tsar.
For some people, four walls are three too many.
The death of one man is a tragedy, the death of millions is a statistic.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs
Death solves all problems — no man, no problem.
We will hang the capitalists with the rope that they sell us.
He had found Russia working with wooden ploughs and leaving it equipped with atomic piles.
Apparently, father was a Georgian when he was younger.
Stalin was better informed than Roosevelt, more realistic than Churchill, in some ways the most effective of the war leaders.
Humans beings do respond to love; they do have a feeling for truth and justice, they do dislike authority and repression;
Stop sending assassins to murder me... if this doesn't stop, I will send a man to Moscow and there'll be no need to send any more.
Generalissimo Stalin directed every move... made every decision... He is the greatest and wisest military genius who ever lived...
