If I negate powdered wigs, I am still left with unpowdered wigs.
From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.
If anything is certain, it is that I myself am not a Marxist
''Prometheus ist der vornehmste Heilige und Märtyrer im philosophischen Kalender.''
''Das Philosophisch-Werden der Welt ist zugleich ein Weltlich-Werden der Philosophie; ihre Verwirklichung ist zugleich ihr Verlust.''
Every emancipation is a restoration of the human world and of human relationships to a man himself.
''Nicht das Bewußtsein bestimmt das Leben, sondern das Leben bestimmt das Bewußtsein.''
''Sprache entsteht, wie das Bewußtsein, erst aus dem Bedürfnis, der Notdurft des Verkehrs mit anderen Menschen.''
Philosophy stands in the same relation to the study of the actual world as masturbation to sexual love.
A spectre is haunting Europe; the spectre of Communism.
The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.
But every class struggle is a political struggle.
Of all the classes that stand face to face with the bourgeoisie today, the proletariat alone is a really revolutionary class.
Law, morality, religion, are to him so many bourgeois prejudices, behind which lurk in ambush just as many bourgeois interests.
The theory of Communism may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property.
The working men have no country. We cannot take away from them what they have not got.
The object before us, to begin with, ''material production''.
The industrial peak of a people when its main concern is not yet gain, but rather to gain.
No production without a need. But consumption reproduces the need.
The object of art — like every other product — creates a public which is sensitive to art and enjoys beauty.
A man cannot become a child again, or he becomes childish.
What's sauce for the gander is sauce for the goose.
The unity is brought about ''by force''.
''Die Ideen exis­tie­ren nicht ge­trennt von der Spra­che.''
The circulation of commodities is the original precondition of the circulation of money.
Since labour is motion, time is its natural measure.
Exchange value forms the substance of money, and exchange value is wealth.
Money is therefore not only the object but also the fountainhead of greed.
Surplus value is exactly equal to surplus labour; the increase of the one is exactly measured by the diminution of ''necessary labour''.
The devil take this wrong arithmetic. But never mind.
''Luxury'' is the opposite of the ''naturally necessary''.
The circulation of capital ''realizes value'', while living labour ''creates value''.
Something that is merely negative creates nothing.
Money is itself a product of circulation.
Beauty is the main positive form of the aesthetic assimilation of reality, in which aesthetic ideal finds it direct expression...
The economic concept of value does not occur in antiquity.
It is impossible to persue this nonsense any further.
Every beginning is difficult, holds in all sciences.
I pre-suppose, of course, a reader who is willing to learn something new and therefore to think for himself.
The country that is more developed industrially only shows, to the less developed, the image of its own future.
The most violent, mean and malignant passions of the human breast, the Furies of private interest.
To discover the various use of things is the work of history.
Every commodity is compelled to chose some other commodity for its equivalent.
Gold is now money with reference to all other commodities only because it was previously, with reference to them, a simple commodity.
There is a physical relation between physical things. But it is different with commodities.
Value, therefore, does not stalk about with a label describing what it is.
The law of gravity thus asserts itself when a house falls about our ears.
The religious world is but the reflex of the real world.
Under the ideal measure of values there lurks the hard cash.
We see then, commodities are in love with money, but "the course of true love never did run smooth".
Hence money may be dirt, although dirt is not money.
It is in this sense that Franklin says, "war is robbery, commerce is generally cheating."
— man's heart is a wonderful thing, especially when carried in the purse —
Capital is dead labor,that vampire-like, only lives by sucking living labor, and lives the more, the more labor it sucks.
The tool, as we have seen, is not exterminated by the machine.
Unlimited exploitation of cheap labour-power is the sole foundation of their power to compete.
In capitalist society spare time is acquired for one class by converting the whole life-time of the masses into labour-time.
If production be capitalistic in form, so, too, will be reproduction.
In reality, the labourer belongs to capital before he has sold himself to capital.
Accumulate, accumulate! That is Moses and the prophets!
But if the labourers could live on air they could not be bought at any price.
But capitalist production begets,with the inexorability of a law of Nature,its own negation. It is the negation of negation.
Nor is it the irrationality of the form which is taken as characteristic. On the contrary, one overlooks the irrational.
So long as the product is sold, everything is taking its regular course from the standpoint of the capitalist producer.
The entire process seems simple and natural, i.e., possesses the naturalness of a shallow rationalism.
A house sold by A to B does not wander from one place to another, although it circulates as a commodity.
The capitalist cannot store labour-power in warehouses after he has bought it, as he may do with the raw material.
Since the working-class lives from hand to mouth,it buys as long as it has the means to buy.
Capitalist production does not exist at all without foreign commerce.
The process is so complicated that it offers ever so many occasions for running abnormally.
In a social order dominated by capitalist production even the non-capitalist producer is gripped by capitalist conceptions.
The rich will do anything for the poor but get off their backs.
Art is always and everywhere the secret confession, and at the same time the immortal movement of its time.
We will hang the capitalists with the rope that they sell us.
If we were to hang the last capitalist, another would appear to sell us the rope.
As there was a Socialism before Marx, so there will be one after him.
I'm not competent to judge. But no doubt he was a great man.
Marx profoundly affected those who did not accept his system. His influence extended to those who least supposed they were subject to it.
Marx, like Madison-that bad men corrupt good systems just as often as vice versa.
But had Marx not lived there would have been other socialists and other prophets of a new society.
God is dead. Marx is dead. And I don’t feel so well myself.
And while Lennon read a book of Marx, The quartet practiced in the park, And we sang dirges in the dark The day the music died.
Marx's economic teachings are essentially a garbled rehash of the theories of Ricardo.
This solution of the Jewish question Adolf Hitler’s, for it involved the liquidation of Judaism.
Marxists have always treated justice with some disdain.
However, if Marx had not been more than a purveyor of phraseology, he would be dead by now.
It had to be admitted in the end that Marx had made mistakes on many points of importance.
