Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave My heart into my mouth: I love your majesty According to my bond; no more nor less.
Mend your speech a little, Lest you may mar your fortunes.
Lear: So young, and so untender? Cordelia: So young, my lord, and true. Lear: Let it be so; — thy truth, then, be thy dower.
Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow Upon the foul disease.
Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides: Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself.
We have seen the best of our time: machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our graves.
Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped out, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.
The hedge sparrow fed the cuckoo so long, That it had it head bit off by it young.
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, More hideous, when thou show'st thee in a child Than the sea-monster!
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child!
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
I have seen better faces in my time, Than stands on any shoulder that I see Before me at this instant.
Fortune, good-night: smile once more; turn thy wheel!
Our basest beggars Are in the poorest thing superfluous: Allow not nature more than nature needs, Man's life is cheap as beast's.
I will do such things, What they are, yet I know not; but they shall be The terrors of the earth.
I have full cause of weeping; but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
I am a man, More sinn'd against than sinning.
The art of our necessities is strange, And can make vile things precious.
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that; No more of that.
Child Rowland to the dark tower came, His word was still, —Fie, foh, and fum, I smell the blood of a British man.
He's mad, that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
Go, thrust him out at gates, and let him smell His way to Dover.
And worse I may be yet: the worst is not, So long as we can say, ''This is the worst.''
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods, — They kill us for their sport.
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind Blows in your face.
She that herself will sliver and disbranch From her material sap, perforce must wither And come to deadly use.
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile: Filths savour but themselves.
Gloucester: O! let me kiss that hand! Lear: Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality.
There thou mightst behold the great image of authority: a dog's obeyed in office.
You must bear with me: Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
Men must endure Their going hence, even as their coming hither: Ripeness is all.
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to plague us.
The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
Vex not his ghost: O! let him pass; he hates him That would upon the rack of this tough world Stretch him out longer.
I have a journey, sir, shortly to go. My master calls me; I must not say no.
