In Aberdeen, I hated my best friends with a passion, because they were idiots.
It's really not hard to keep your dignity and sign to a major label...Most people don't have any dignity in the first place.
Rap music is the only vital form of music introduced since punk rock.
Rape is one of the most terrible crimes on earth. And it happens every few minutes.
Hope I die before I turn into Pete Townshend.
I would like to get rid of the homophobes, sexists, and racists in our audience. I know they're out there and it really bothers me.
We sound like the Bay City Rollers after an assault by Black Sabbath. And, we vomit onstage better than anyone.
If I went to jail, at least I wouldn't have to sign autographs.
I just can’t believe anyone would start a band just to make the scene and be cool and have chicks. I just can’t believe it.
I wouldn’t wear a tie-dyed tee-shirt unless it was dyed with the urine of Phil Collins and the blood of Jerry Garcia.
If you're really a mean person you're going to come back as a fly and eat poop.
Jocks have completely taken over music... And just to get back at them, I’m going to start playing basketball.
I wouldn't have been surprised if they had voted me Most Likely To Kill Everyone At A High School Dance.
The thrill and embarrassment of becoming international pop stars was too much, so we opened our mouths and put our foot in sometimes.
I'm a much happier guy than a lot of people think I am.
I can't play Segovia. The flip side of that is that Segovia could probably never have played like me.
If it was up to me, I'd get more oil tanker drivers drunk. I don’t value music much. I like the Roger Daltrey.
I would like to think there's some purity in us, yeah. Naive - y'know, purposely naive.
I'll be the first to admit that we're the 90's version of Cheap Trick or the Knack but the last to admit that it hasn't been rewarding.
I use bits and pieces of others sic personalities to form my own. p. 95
When I hear the term Right wing I think of Hitler and Satan and Civil war. p. 259
I would only wear a tie dyed T Shirt if it were dyed with the urine of Phil Collins and the blood of Jerry Garcia. p. 269
I am not well read, but when I do read, I read well. p. 124
I need an easy friend I do, with an ear to lend.
She loves him more than he will ever know He loves her more than he will ever show
Thank you, dear God For putting me on this Earth I feel very privileged In debt for my thirst
With the lights out, it's less dangerous Here we are now, entertain us I feel stupid, and contagious Here we are now, entertain us.
Load up on guns, and bring your friends.
A mulatto, an albino, a mosquito, my libido.
I found it hard, It was hard to find Oh well, whatever, never mind.
He's the one Who likes all our pretty songs And he likes to sing along And he likes to shoot his gun But he knows not what it means.
I'm so happy 'Cause today I found my friends They're in my head. I'm so ugly, that's okay 'Cause so are you, Broke our mirrors.
Polly wants a cracker Think I should get off her first Think she wants some water To put out the blow torch.
Just because you're paranoid Don't mean they're not after you.
One baby to another says I'm lucky to have met you
It's OK to eat fish 'Cos they don't have any feelings
Teenage angst has paid off well Now I'm bored and old.
Throw down your umbilical noose so I can climb right back.
I take pride as the king of illiterature.
Give me a Leonard Cohen afterworld So I can sigh eternally.
Hate your enemies Save your friends Find your place Speak the truth.
And the flowers sing in D minor And the birds fly happily.
And if you save yourself You will make him happy.
Things have never been so swell I have never failed to fail.
Something in her eyes Must be the smoke in my lungs.
I need you around To remind me what not to become.
Congratulations, you have won It's a year's subscription of bad puns.
Neither side is sacred; no one wants to win Feeling so sedated; think I'll just give in.
If I may, and if I might Lay me down, weeping.
We're Nirvana and we really don't particularly like heavy metal.
Hello, we're major label corporate rock sell outs.
There is plenty of Hühnerfleisch in the Kühlschrank. (There is plenty of chicken in the fridge.)
Hi, my name is Kurt Cobain, I'm homosexual, I'm a pagan, I'm a drug abuser, and I like to fuck pot-bellied pigs!
We're waiting for the dinosaurs to die out. They will die. And then we'll move into their homes.
I've been waiting for that! (After an audience member requests "Free Bird" by Lynyrd Skynyrd.)
I don't think MTV would let us play that. (After an audience member requests "Rape Me.")
What are they tuning, a harp? I thought we were a big rich rock band. We should have a whole bunch of extra guitars.
What's the matter with all you people at the back, did you come here to see Gloria Estefan?
OK, you trained monkeys, everybody jump up and down. Let's bring back the good old pogo!
I spent all of my life trying to stay away from sports and here I am in a sporting arena.
It's better to burn out than to fade away.
He had a touch most guitarists would kill for.
Rage and aggression were elements for Kurt to play with as an artist, but he was profoundly gentle and intelligent.
In Kurt’s voice I could hear his love of bluegrass music, of Bill Monroe and Leadbelly. It’s in the twang of his voice.
And like I said I love Kurt Cobain and Nirvana, the lyrics are so deep--stuff like "The animals I've trapped have now become my pets".
He's your archetypal small guy - wiry, defiantly working class and fiery.
Kurt's wounds were so deep that when the music floated to the surface after being filtered through his soul, it was incorporeal.
Kurt Cobain, we was good friends Ozzy Osbourne too.
And KDC you were much too young And you changed my life But I draw the line at suicide. Here's to Life!
You can hear them crying down the lane From Portland to Maryland From Greece to Spain.
Thanks to Elvis and Kurt Cobain The world will never be the same.
Just because they knew your name Doesn't mean they know from where you came What a sad trick you thought that you had to play.
It's a shame about your future It's a crime about your past.
Blown away by fame We could all feel the shotgun hit the floor.
What of Kurt Cobain, will his presence still remain?
Where did you sleep last night With the angels locked up tight Love was his only light Did she have another one?
My sister, she says she knows Elvis Presley She knows Jesus, John Lennon, and Kurt Cobain personally.
Kurt Cobain was so young Sad to see this poet's gone.
A whole generation of kids blowin' out their fuckin' brains to this Kurt Cobain music.
He lies in an empty room With his hair burnt to the back It sure sounds funny When you say his name like that.
Kurt Cobain's rich as fuck He's buried in the ground.
Trained, raw, like Big Daddy Kane Plus I’m born on the same day as Kurt Cobain
What's coursing through my veins? Horrible, hurts the brain Listen to Jimi Hendrix, worshiping Kurt Cobain The ghetto Edgar Allan Poe
And a memory that can ease your pain Like a melody from Kurt Cobain.
Way out in Seattle Young Kurt Cobain Snuck out to the greenhouse Put a bullet in his brain.
Some believe that you are God,  Others say you were an idiot.  But I only see a good, sad man,  Whose name was K. Cobain.
Johnny wishes he was famous Spends his time alone in the basement With Lennon and Cobain And a guitar and a stereo.
Low budget hoes trynna knock ya game, like Did Courtney Love kill Kurt Cobain, from close range Turn his brain to shrimp lo mein?
He gathered up his loved ones And he brought them all around To say, "Goodbye, nice try."
Cobain, can you hear the spheres Singing songs off station to station?
Left on the floor Leaving your body When highs are the lows And lows are the way.
Yeah the whole Byrd gang's in here, like Kurt Cobain was here.
Sometimes I wonder what goes on inside her mind When she said she thought Dave Grohl had died, and Kurt Cobain was still alive.
Hard luck god, he never had a chance, you know. Incurable romantics never do.
Toward another, he has gone To breathe an air beyond his own.
Disturbed by the fame Just like Kurt Cobain.
Kurt Cobain reincarnated Sighs and licks his face.
He rocked the United States by flying all over the country and playing that rock and roll He is a good singer He is my rock star.
Too late, He sleeps with angels Too soon, He's always on someone's mind.
