High school is closer to the core of the American experience than anything else I can think of.
I was taught that the human brain was the crowning glory of evolution so far, but I think it’s a very poor scheme for survival.
We're terrible animals. I think that the Earth's immune system is trying to get rid of us, as well it should.
Well, I just want to say that George W. Bush is the syphilis president.
The only difference between Bush and Hitler is that Hitler was elected.
“My theory is that all women have hydrofluoric acid bottled up inside,” he wrote.
And a step backward, after making a wrong turn, is a step in the right direction.
"Things don't stay the way they are," said Finnerty. "It's too entertaining to try to change them."
Everybody's shaking in his boots, so don't be bluffed.
He ransacked his memory like a thief going through another man's billfold.
A purpose of human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved.
Take Care of the People, and God Almighty Will Take Care of Himself.
The big trouble with dumb bastards is that they are too dumb to believe there is such a thing as being smart.
I was a victim of a series of accidents, as are we all.
Puny man can do nothing at all to help or please God Almighty, and Luck is not the hand of God.
We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be.
Make love when you can. It's good for you.
"All people are insane," he said. "They will do anything at any time, and God help anybody who looks for reasons."
Say what you will about the sweet miracle of unquestioning faith, I consider a capacity for it terrifying and absolutely vile.
Generally speaking, espionage offers each spy an opportunity to go crazy in a way he finds irresistible.
Beware of the man who works hard to learn something, learns it, and finds himself no wiser than before.
Like all real heroes, Charley had a fatal flaw. He refused to believe that he had gonorrhea, whereas the truth was that he did.
Pretend to be good always, and even God will be fooled.
I never knew a writer's wife who wasn't beautiful.
Everything was beautiful and nothing hurt.
The new heroism — put a village idiot into a pressure cooker, seal it up tight, and shoot him at the moon.
No grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation.
This script, it seems to me, is the work of professionals who yearned to be as charming as inspired amateurs can sometimes be.
Charm was a scheme for making strangers like and trust a person immediately, no matter what the charmer had in mind.
I can have oodles of charm when I want to.
Ideas or the lack of them can cause disease.
Let us devote to unselfishness the frenzy we once gave gold and underpants.
Like most science-fiction writers, Trout knew almost nothing about science.
We are healthy only to the extent that our ideas are humane.
Hey — guess what: You're the only creature with free will. How does that make you feel?
Our awareness is all that is alive and maybe sacred in any of us. Everything else about us is dead machinery.
Here was what Kilgore Trout cried out to me in my father's voice: "Make me young, make me young, make me young!"
Love is where you find it. I think it is foolish to go looking for it, and I think it can often be poisonous.
Why don't you take a flying fuck at a rolling doughnut. Why don't you take a flying fuck at the mooooooooooooon!
History is merely a list of surprises. … It can only prepare us to be surprised yet again. Please write that down.
If you can do no good, at least do no harm.
I still believe that peace and plenty and happiness can be worked out some way. I am a fool.
What is flirtatiousness but an argument that life must go on and on and on?
"That was the strength of the Nazis," she said. "They understood God better than anyone. They knew how to make him stay away."
This is my principal objection to life, I think: It is too easy, when alive, to make perfectly horrible mistakes.
You want to know something? We are still in the Dark Ages. The Dark Ages — they haven't ended yet.
Time is liquid. One moment is no more important than any other and all moments quickly run away.
I've got news for Mr. Santayana: we're doomed to repeat the past no matter what. That's what it is to be alive.
Belief is nearly the whole of the Universe, whether based on truth or not.
Who is more to be pitied, a writer bound and gagged by policemen or one living in perfect freedom who has nothing more to say?
"We're having a celebration, so all sorts of things have been said which are not true," I said. "That's how to act at a party."
It is a gruesome Disneyland. Nobody is cute there.
When the excrement hit the air condition (Recurring phrase throughout many chapters)
If facts weren't funny, or scary, or couldn't make you rich, the heck with them.
Beer, of course, is actually a depressant. But poor people will never stop hoping otherwise.
She was an alcoholic. I didn't blame myself for that. The worst problem in the life of any alcoholic is alcohol.
Just because some of us can read and write and do a little math, that doesn't mean we deserve to conquer the Universe.
Freedom of speech isn't something somebody else gives you. That's something you give to yourself.
Another flaw in the human character is that everybody wants to build and nobody wants to do maintenance.
profanity and obscenity entitle people who don't want unpleasant information to close their ears and eyes to you.
All persons, living and dead, are purely coincidental.
Freud said he didn’t know what women wanted. I know what women want. They want a whole lot of people to talk to.
What do men want? They want a lot of pals, and they wish that people wouldn’t get so mad at them.
His plan? To pass out weapons to slaves, so they could overthrow their masters. Suicide.
So let’s give another big tax cut to the super-rich. That’ll teach bin Laden a lesson he won’t soon forget.
I am of course notoriously hooked on cigarettes. I keep hoping the things will kill me. A fire at one end and a fool at the other.
In case you haven’t noticed, we are now almost as feared and hated all over the world as the Nazis were.
Shrapnel was invented by an Englishman of the same name. Don't you wish you could have something named after you?
My last words? "Life is no way to treat an animal, not even a mouse."
Our president is a Christian? So was Adolf Hitler.
George W. Bush has gathered around him upper-crust C-students who know no history or geography.
Doesn't anything socialistic make you want to throw up? Like great public schools, or health insurance for all?
What is it, what can it possibly be about blowjobs and golf?
If God were alive today, he would have to be an atheist, because the excrement has hit the air-conditioning big time, big time.
Old Norwegian Proverb: Swedes have short dicks but long memories.
Vietnam only made billionaires out of millionaires. Iraq is making trillionaires out of billionaires. Now I call that progress.
Humor is an almost physiological response to fear.
I think that novels that leave out technology misrepresent life as badly as Victorians misrepresented life by leaving out sex.
The highest treason in the USA is to say Americans are not loved, no matter where they are, no matter what they are doing there.
If you actually are an educated, thinking person, you will not be welcome in Washington DC.
We are about to be attacked by Al Qaeda. Wave flags if you have them. That always seems to scare them away. I'm kidding.
America's soldiers are being treated … like toys a rich kid got for Christmas.
We are here on Earth to fart around. Don't let anybody tell you any different.
If I should ever die, God forbid, I hope you will say, "Kurt is up in heaven now." That's my favorite joke.
A joke is like building a mousetrap from scratch. You have to work pretty hard to make the thing snap when it is supposed to snap.
Humor is a way of holding off how awful life can be.
You know, the truth can be really powerful stuff. You're not expecting it.
Evolution is so creative. That's how we got giraffes.
Do you think Arabs are dumb? They gave us our numbers. Try doing long division with Roman numerals.
It is almost always a mistake to mention Abraham Lincoln. He always steals the show.
We've sure come a long way since then. Sometimes I wish we hadn't. I hate H-bombs and the Jerry Springer show.
We could have saved the earth, but we were too damned cheap.
