Error is the force that welds men together; truth is communicated to men only by deeds of truth.
I know that my unity with all people cannot be destroyed by national boundaries and government orders.
Ivan Ilych's life had been most simple and most ordinary and therefore most terrible.
Six feet of land was all that he needed.
The happiness of men consists in life. And life is in labor.
The vocation of every man and woman is to serve other people.
If a man aspires towards a righteous life, his first act of abstinence is from injury to animals.
The more is given the less the people will work for themselves, and the less they work the more their poverty will increase.
All violence consists in some people forcing others, under threat of suffering or death, to do what they do not want to do.
There is only one enduring happiness in life&mdash;to live for others.
The only thing that we know is that we know nothing — and that is the highest flight of human wisdom.
You will die — and it will all be over. You will die and find out everything — or cease asking.
Everything comes in time to him who knows how to wait.
The strongest of all warriors are these two — Time and Patience.
To love life is to love God. Harder and more blessed than all else is to love this life in one's sufferings, in undeserved sufferings.
Pure and complete sorrow is as impossible as pure and complete joy.
All happy families resemble one another, each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
He knew she was there by the joy and fear that overwhelmed his heart.
He stepped down, trying not to look long at her, as if she were the sun, yet he saw her, like the sun, even without looking.
"Respect was invented to cover the empty place where love should be."
The only absolute knowledge attainable by man is that life is meaningless.
If one has no vanity in this life of ours, there is no sufficient reason for living.
Armies are necessary, before all things, for the defense of governments from their own oppressed and enslaved subjects.
Art is a human activity having for its purpose the transmission to others of the highest and best feelings to which men have risen.
By words one transmits thoughts to another, by means of art, one transmits feelings.
The activity of art is... as important as the activity of language itself, and as universal.
The relation of word to thought, and the creation of new concepts is a complex, delicate and enigmatic process unfolding in our soul.
In the spiritual realm nothing is indifferent: what is not useful is harmful.
It is terrible when people do not know God, but it is worse when people identify as God what is not God.
All our problems are caused by forgetting what lives within us, and we sell our souls for the “bowl of stew” of bodily satisfactions.
Division of labor is a justification for sloth.
Honest work is much better than a mansion.
Giving alms is only a virtuous deed when you give money that you yourself worked to get.
Wealth is a great sin in the eyes of God. Poverty is a great sin in the eyes of man.
Wealth brings a heavy purse; poverty, a light spirit.
The compassionate are not rich; therefore, the rich are not compassionate.
If a poor person envies a rich person, he is no better than the rich person.
When a person inflates his own importance, he does not see his own sins; and his sin get bigger right along with him.
The most important person is the one you are with in this moment.
In life, in true life, there can be nothing better than what is. Wanting something different than what is, is blasphemy.
If the world could write by itself, it would write like Tolstoy.
Tolstoy, himself a nobleman and the owner of a thousand serfs, conceived of dramas on a scale commensurate with his lands and estates.
It has been said that a careful reading of ''Anna Karenina'', if it teaches you nothing else, will teach you how to make strawberry jam.
Hunter, Robert (author): ''Why We Fail as Christians''
Schopenhauer, Arthur: ''The World as Will and Representation''
