and you kissed me  shy as though I'd  never been your lover
Rust rust rust  in the engines of love and time
Only in Canada could somebody with a voice like mine win 'Vocalist of the Year'.
I told you when I came I was a stranger.
It's you my love, you who are the stranger.
Like a bird on the wire,  like a drunk in a midnight choir  I have tried in my way to be free. 
I finally broke into the prison  I found my place in the chain  Even damnation is poisoned with rainbows
If you want a lover  I'll do anything you ask me to.  And if you want another kind of love  I'll wear a mask for you.
I've seen the future, brother: it is murder.
''Waiting for the miracle There's nothing left to do. I haven't been this happy since the end of World War II.''
We're drinking and we're dancing but there's nothing really happening. The place is dead as Heaven on a Saturday night.
''Every heart to love will come  But like a refugee.''
And here you are hurried,  And here you are gone;  And here is the love,  That it's all built upon.
Here is your cross,  Your nails and your hill;  And here is your love,  That lists where it will
May everyone live,  And may everyone die.  Hello, my love,  And my love, Goodbye.
All busy in the sunlight  The flecks did float and dance,  And I was tumbled up with them  In formless circumstance.
''You whisper, "You have loved enough,  Now let me be the Lover."''
I fought against the bottle  but I had to do it drunk
What if I had to  Live here without you  Oh, I don't really want to know  Where you goin', Lenny Cohen?
This was a man where, within a Pop Song, there were some big ideas
He's got your young idealism, he's got You when You can't face the world. He's got You at all stages
He's of almost Biblical importance. I don't think theres going to be another Leonard Cohen.
Give me a Leonard Cohen afterworld  So I can sigh eternally
But I was caught, like a fleeting thought Stuck inside Leonard Cohen's mind
I don't want, no I really don't want  To be John Lennon or Leonard Cohen I just want to be my Dad.
No one ever listens to me. I might as well be a Leonard Cohen record.
