I'm doing a (free) operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones.
Your job is being a professor and researcher: That's one hell of a good excuse for some of the brain-damages of Minix.
Portability is for people who cannot write new programs.
If you need more than 3 levels of indentation, you're screwed anyway, and should fix your program.
You know you're brilliant, but maybe you'd like to understand what you did 2 weeks from now.
An infinite number of monkeys typing into GNU emacs would never make a good program.
The main reason there are no raw devices in Linux is that I personally think that raw devices are a stupid idea.
If you still don't like it, that's OK: that's why I'm boss. I simply know better than you do.
&hellip;the Linux philosophy is "laugh in the face of danger". Oops. Wrong one. "Do it yourself". That's it.
See, you not only have to be a good coder to create a system like Linux, you have to be a sneaky bastard too ;-)
Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did.
"Regression testing"? What's that? If it compiles, it is good; if it boots up, it is perfect.
I'd like to say that I knew this would happen, that it's all part of the plan for world domination.
In short: just say NO TO DRUGS, and maybe you won't end up like the Hurd people.
Those that can, do. Those that can't, complain.
Really, I'm not out to destroy Microsoft. That will just be a completely unintentional side effect.
The NIH syndrome (Not Invented Here) is a disease.
My name is Linus Torvalds and I am your god.
Oh fuck. If I kill this guy, I'll have millions of nerds on my case.
Most days I wake up thinking I'm the luckiest bastard alive.
A lot of people still like Solaris, but I'm in active competition with them, and so I hope they die.
Don't bother. Bram doesn't know what he's talking about.
It was ''such'' a relief to program in user mode for a change. Not having to care about the small stuff is wonderful.
I'm always right. This time I'm just even more right than usual.
I claim that Mach people (and apparently FreeBSD) are incompetent idiots.
EFI is this other Intel brain-damage (the first one being ACPI).
I think people can generally trust me, but they can trust me exactly because they know they don't ''have'' to.
Nobody actually creates perfect code the first time around, except me. But there's only one of me.
Is "I hope you all die a painful death" too strong?
I'm an egotistical bastard, and I name all my projects after myself. First Linux, now git.
I have an ego the size of a small planet.
It has nothing to do with dinosaurs. Good taste doesn't go out of style
And what's the Internet without the rick-roll?
Theory and practice sometimes clash. And when that happens, theory loses. Every single time.
I may make jokes about Microsoft at times, but at the same time, I think the Microsoft hatred is a disease.
Your code is shit.. your argument is shit.
Standards are paper. I use paper to wipe my butt every day. That's how much that paper is worth.
Toto, I don't think we're talking white-socks-and-sandals any more.
Somebody is trying to kill all the kernel developers.
Obsessing about things is important, and things really do matter, but if you can't let go of them, you'll end up crazy.
People say that you should not micro-optimize. But if what you love is micro-optimization... that what you should do.
I like offending people, because I think people who get offended ''should'' be offended.
I hope I won't end up having to hunt you all down and kill you in your sleep.
Whoever came up with "hold the shift key for eight seconds to turn on 'your keyboard is buggered' mode" should be shot.
On the internet nobody can hear you being subtle.
''If 386BSD had been available when I started on Linux, Linux would probably never had happened.''
Software is like sex; it's better when it's free.
The memory management on the PowerPC can be used to frighten small children.
OK, I admit it. I was just a front-man for the real fathers of Linux, the Tooth Fairy and Santa Claus.
