Farewell! if ever fondest prayer For other's weal avail'd on high, Mine will not all be lost in air, But waft thy name beyond the sky.
I only know we loved in vain; I only feel — farewell! farewell!
When we two parted In silence and tears, Half brokenhearted, To sever for years.
Near this spot Are deposited the Remains of one Who possessed DOG
The poor dog, in life the firmest friend, The first to welcome, foremost to defend.
Maid of Athens, ere we part,  Give, oh give me back my heart!
The love where Death has set his seal, Nor age can chill, nor rival steal, Nor falsehood disavow.
And thou wert lovely to the last, Extinguish'd, not decay'd; As stars that shoot along the sky Shine brightest as they fall from high.
If I am fool, it is, at least, a doubting one; and I envy no one the certainty of his self-approved wisdom.
Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever, fare thee well: Even though unforgiving, never 'Gainst thee shall my heart rebel.
My hair is grey, but not with years, Nor grew it white In a single night, As men's have grown from sudden fears.
Oh, God! it is a fearful thing To see the human soul take wing In any shape, in any mood.
A light broke in upon my brain, — It was the carol of a bird; It ceased, and then it came again, The sweetest song ear ever heard.
There 's not a joy the world can give like that it takes away.
There be none of Beauty's daughters With a magic like thee; And like music on the waters Is thy sweet voice to me.
I had a dream, which was not all a dream.
My boat is on the shore, And my bark is on the sea; But, before I go, Tom Moore. Here's a double health to thee!
Here's a sigh to those who love me, And a smile to those who hate: And, whatever sky's above me, Here's a heart for every fate.
Were't the last drop in the well, As I gasp'd upon the brink, Ere my fainting spirit fell 'T is to thee that I would drink.
The best of prophets of the future is the past.
The world is a bundle of hay, Mankind are the asses that pull, Each tugs in a different way— And the greatest of all is John Bull!
Who killed John Keats? "I," says the Quarterly, So savage and Tartarly; "'Twas one of my feats."
He seems To have seen better days, as who has not Who has seen yesterday?
Sublime tobacco! which from east to west Cheers the tar's labor or the Turkman's rest.
Jack was embarrassed — never hero more, And as he knew not what to say, he swore.
What's drinking? A mere pause from thinking!
My days are in the yellow leaf; The flowers and fruits of Love are gone; The worm — the canker, and the grief Are mine alone!
I awoke one morning and found myself famous.
A great poet belongs to no country; his works are public property, and his Memoirs the inheritance of the public.
Hands promiscuously applied, Round the slight waist, or down the glowing side.
They never fail who die In a great cause.
Friendship may, and often does, grow into love, but love never subsides into friendship.
Lord of himself,—that heritage of woe!
Yet in my lineaments they trace Some features of my father's face.
Born in the garret, in the kitchen bred.
Whose game was empires and whose stakes were thrones, Whose table earth, whose dice were human bones.
What say you to such a supper with such a woman?
I'll publish right or wrong: Fools are my theme, let satire be my song.
'Tis pleasure, sure, to see one's name in print; A book's a book, although there's nothing in 't.
A man must serve his time to every trade Save censure — critics are ready-made.
With just enough of learning to misquote.
Better to err with Pope, than shine with Pye.
Where the virgins are soft as the roses they twine, And all, save the spirit of man, is divine?
Mark! where his carnage and his conquests cease! He makes a solitude, and calls it — peace!
Hark! to the hurried question of despair: "Where is my child?"—an echo answers, "Where?"
Shrine of the mighty! can it be That this is all remains of thee?
For freedom's battle, once begun, Bequeath'd by bleeding sire to son, Though baffled oft, is ever won.
And lovelier things have mercy shown To every failing but their own, And every woe a tear can claim Except an erring sister's shame.
The keenest pangs the wretched find Are rapture to the dreary void, The leafless desert of the mind,  The waste of feelings unemployed.
Better to sink beneath the shock Than moulder piecemeal on the rock.
The cold in clime are cold in blood,  Their love can scarce deserve the name.
I die — but first I have possessed, And come what may, I have been blessed.
The fatal facility of the octosyllabic verse.
Oh who can tell, save he whose heart hath tried.
Such hath it been — shall be — beneath the sun The many still must labour for the one!
Hope withering fled, and Mercy sighed farewell!
No words suffice the secret soul to show, For truth denies all eloquence to woe.
He left a corsair's name to other times, Linked with one virtue, and a thousand crimes.
For the Angel of Death spread his wings on the blast.
And the might of the Gentile, unsmote by the sword, Hath melted like snow in the glance of the Lord!
Sighing that Nature formed but one such man, And broke the die, in molding Sheridan.
And to his eye There was but one beloved face on earth, And that was shining on him.
She was his life, The ocean to the river of his thoughts, Which terminated all.
A change came o'er the spirit of my dream.
Sorrow is knowledge: they who know the most Must mourn the deepest o’er the fatal truth, The Tree of Knowledge is not that of Life.
The heart ran o'er With silent worship of the great of old! The dead but sceptred sovereigns, who still rule Our spirits from their urns.
Old man! ’tis not so difficult to die.
So, we'll go no more a roving So late into the night, Though the heart be still as loving, And the moon be still as bright.
For the sword outwears its sheath, And the soul wears out the breast, And the heart must pause to breathe, And love itself have rest.
Though the night was made for loving, And the day returns too soon, Yet we'll go no more a roving By the light of the moon.
Besides, they always smell of bread and butter.
Heart on her lips, and soul within her eyes, Soft as her clime, and sunny as her skies.
O Mirth and Innocence! O milk and water! Ye happy mixtures of more happy days.
How my soul hates This language,  Which makes life itself a lie, Flattering dust with eternity.
Eat, drink, and love; the rest's not worth a fillip.
The "good old times" — all times when old are good — Are gone.
Armenian is a rich language, however, and would amply repay any one the trouble of learning it.
The world is rid of Lord Byron, but the deadly slime of his touch still remains.
Lord Byron is great only as a poet; as soon as he reflects, he is a child.
Lord Byron makes man after his own image, woman after his own heart; the one is a capricious tyrant, the other a yielding slave.
I never heard a single expression of fondness for him fall from the lips of any of those who knew him well.
Always looking at himself in mirrors to make sure he was sufficiently outrageous.
If I could envy any man for successful ill nature I should envy Lord Byron for his skill in satirical nomenclature.
