Kaffirs are as a rule uncivilised—the convicts even more so. They are troublesome, very dirty and live almost like animals.
In reality there are as many religions as there are individuals.
Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat, for it is momentary.
A man is but the product of his thoughts. What he thinks, he becomes.
Nonviolence is the first article of my faith. It is also the last article of my creed.
Always believe in your dreams, because if you don't, you'll still have hope.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
I’m a lover of my own liberty, and so I would do nothing to restrict yours. I simply want to please my own conscience, which is God.
I saw that bad handwriting should be regarded as a sign of an imperfect education.
Every Hindu boy and girl should possess sound Sanskrit learning.
Today I know that physical training should have as much place in the curriculum as mental training.
A man of truth must also be a man of care.
One golden rule is to accept the interpretation honestly put on the pledge by the party administering it.
A convert's enthusiasm for his new religion is greater than that of a person who is born in it.
I had learnt at the onset not to carry on public work with borrowed money.
My uniform experience has convinced me that there is no other God than Truth.
I regard myself as a soldier, though a soldier of peace.
I worship God as Truth only. I have not yet found Him, but I am seeking after Him.
It is unwise to be too sure of one's own wisdom. It is healthy to be reminded that the strongest might weaken and the wisest might err.
The ideally non-violent state will be an ordered anarchy. That State is the best governed which is governed the least.
The Earth provides enough to satisfy every man's need but not for every man's greed.
Truth never damages a cause that is just.
In the dictionary of Satyagraha, there is no enemy.
You must not lose faith in humanity. Humanity is an ocean; if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
Remember that there is always a limit to self-indulgence but none to self-restraint, and let us daily progress in that direction.
My own experience but confirms the opinion that the Musalman as a rule is a bully, and the Hindu as rule is a coward.
We need to be the change we wish to see in the world.
Whatever you do will be insignificant, but it is very important that you do it.
First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
I have never advocated "passive" anything. We must never submit to unjust laws. Never. And our resistance must be active and provocative.
The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.
asked what he thought of modern civilization That would be a good idea.
What we are doing to the forests of the world is but a mirror reflection of what we are doing to ourselves and to one another.
An eye for an eye will make the whole world blind.
Gandhi proved it is possible to fight for one's people and win without for a moment losing the world's respect.
Generations to come, it may well be, will scarce believe that such a man as this one ever in flesh and blood walked upon this Earth.
