I haven't a particle of confidence in a man who has no redeeming petty vices whatsoever.
I'll risk forty dollars that he can outjump any frog in Calaveras county.
I don't see no p'ints about that frog that's any better'n any other frog.
He was ignorant of the commonest accomplishments of youth. He could not even lie.
Soap and education are not as sudden as a massacre, but they are more deadly in the long run.
Tomorrow night I appear for the first time before a Boston audience — 4000 critics.
He is now fast rising from affluence to poverty.
Barring that natural expression of villainy which we all have, the man looked honest enough.
A baby is an inestimable blessing and bother.
Reader, suppose you were an idiot. And suppose you were a member of Congress. But I repeat myself.
Be respectful to your superiors, if you have any.
Loyalty to petrified opinions never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul in ''this'' world — and never ''will''.
An experienced, industrious, ambitious, and often quite picturesque liar.
As I slowly grow wise I briskly grow cautious.
A circle is a round straight line with a hole in the middle.
Weather is a literary specialty, and no untrained hand can turn out a good article on it.
I am opposed to millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.
If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything.
A round man cannot be expected to fit in a square hole right away. He must have time to modify his shape.
Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please.
Definition of a classic — something that everybody wants to have read and nobody wants to read.
...Heaven for climate, Hell for society.
Honesty is the best policy — when there is money in it.
Always do right. This will gratify some people, and astonish the rest.
To create man was a fine and original idea; but to add the sheep was a tautology.
The only reason why God created man is because he was disappointed with the monkey.
The rule is perfect: in all matters of opinion our adversaries are insane. 
I have been complimented many times and they always embarrass me; I always feel that they have not said enough.
Thunder is good, thunder is impressive; but it is lightning that does the work.
The easy confidence with which I know another man's religion is folly teaches me to suspect that my own is also.
You tell me whar a man gits his corn pone, en I'll tell you what his 'pinions is.
The lack of money is the root of all evil.
Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.
It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world, and moral courage so rare.
A man is never more truthful than when he acknowledges himself a liar.
Adam, at Eve's grave: Wheresoever she was, THERE was Eden.
Principles have no real force except when one is well-fed.
I must have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
They spell it "Vinci" and pronounce it "Vinchy". Foreigners always spell better than they pronounce.
Guides cannot master the subtleties of the American joke.
Virtue never has been as respectable as money.
Work consists of whatever a body is OBLIGED to do, and...Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do.
To promise not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing.
One of the brightest gems in the New England weather is the dazzling uncertainty of it.
Unhand me, thou foolish creature; it was not I that bereaved thee of thy paltry goods.
What dost ''thou'' know of suffering and oppression? I and my people know, but not thou.
To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin.
H'aint we got all the fools in town on our side? And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising.
You can't depend on your eyes when your imagination is out of focus.
The best of us would rather be popular than right.
It may be called the Master Passion—the hunger for Self-Approval.
Get a bicycle. You will not regret it, if you live.
Biographies are but clothes and buttons of the man — the biography of the man himself cannot be written.
The trade of critic, in literature, music, and the drama, is the most degraded of all trades.
France has neither winter nor summer nor morals. Apart from these drawbacks it is a fine country.
God's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn.
France has usually been governed by prostitutes.
The radical invents the views. When he has worn them out the conservative adopts them.
Familiarity breeds contempt — and children.
Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person.
Nature knows no indecencies; man invents them.
Fame is a vapor; popularity an accident; the only earthly certainty is oblivion.
You can't depend on your judgment when your imagination is out of focus.
Education consists mainly in what we have unlearned.
Only one thing is impossible for God: To find any sense in any copyright law on the planet.
Whenever you find that you are on the side of the majority, it is time to reform.
Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.
Wagner's music is better than it sounds.
The minority is always in the right. The majority is always in the wrong.
There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.
The coldest winter I ever spent was a summer in San Francisco.
I would have written a shorter letter, but I did not have the time.
Whiskey is for drinking. Water is for fighting over.
Everybody talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Our most valuable and most instructive materials in the history of man are treasured up in India.
Censorship is telling a man he can't have a steak just because a baby can't chew it.
It is better to keep your mouth shut and appear stupid than to open it and remove all doubt.
Don’t believe the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.
