Snakes are very misunderstood. Snakes, I suggest, may be the oldest victims of bad press.
I know my race. I just look in the mirror. I know I'm black.
Lies run sprints but the truth runs marathons.
Let's dance, let's shout! Shake your body down to the ground.
I try to do what's right for me, But no-one sees the way I see, And then I try to please them so, But how far can this pleasing go?
Lovely is the feeling now, Fever, temperature's rising now, Power is the force, the vow, That makes it happen, It asks no questions how.
So let love take us through the hours, I won't be complainin' 'Cause this is love power.
Keep on with the force, don't stop Don't stop 'til you get enough.
She got me workin' day and night, And I've been workin' From sun-up to midnight.
You say that workin is what a man's supposed to do. But I say you ain't right if I can't give sweet love to you.
Get on the floor and dance with me, I love the way you shake your thing especially.
Billie Jean is not my lover, She's just a girl who claims that I am the one, But the kid is not my son.
And the whole world has to answer right now, Just to tell you once again, 'Who's bad!'
The way you make me feel, You really turn me on, You knock me off my feet, My lonely days are gone.
Annie, are you OK? Annie, are you OK? Are you OK, Annie? You've been hit by, you've been struck by A smooth criminal.
So, just leave me alone, Leave me alone, Leave me alone, Leave me alone, stop it, Just stop doggin' me around.
It ain't too much stuff, Jam, it ain't too much, It ain't too much for me to jam!
Just promise me, whatever we say Or do to each other, From now, we make a vow to just Keep it in the closet.
Stop pressuring me, just stop pressuring me, Stop pressuring me, Make me wanna scream.
You know I really do hate to say it,  The government don't wanna see,  But if Roosevelt was livin'  He wouldn't let this be, no, no.
Some things in life they just don't wanna see  But if Martin Luther was livin'  He wouldn't let this be.
How does it feel, When you're alone and you're cold inside?
Before you judge me, try hard to love me, Look within your heart then ask, Have you seen my childhood?
Just because you read it in a magazine, Or see it on a TV screen Don't make it factual.
Speechless, speechless, That's how you make me feel, When I'm with you I am far away, And nothing is for real.
I always wanted to do music that influences and inspires each generation. Lets face it, who wants mortality?
Music has been my outlet, my gift to all of the lovers in this world. Through it — my music, I know I will live forever.
"It's all for love... With the love, L.O.V.E."
Walters: How do you feel when people call you..
He will always be the King of Pop. He has not abdicated, nor has he been usurped.
He is not Peter Pan. He is a full-grown freak. And he must pay.
That's how much we love Michael. We love Michael so much, we let the first kid ''slide''.
He's sort of a fawn in a burning forest. It's a nice place where Michael comes from. I wish we could all spend some time in his world.
I kinda felt like no-one understands what a good father he was.
He made the best French toast in the world.
I sometimes do improvs...well I used to do them with my Dad.
He tried to raise us without knowing who he has was, but that didn't really go so well.
(In response to: What kind of a dad was he? Was he a strict disciplinarian or could you get away with anything with him?) He was strict.
Everyone's all 'a cook?!' like they're suprised to hear it...He was just a normal Dad. Except, I'd say he was the best dad ever.
(In response to: What do you miss the most?) Everything.
(Favourite memory of his father) When we were all in Bahrain we used to wake up early and walk to the beach with Coca-Cola and Skittles.
The world has lost an amazing man. A man that cared, and loved and gave everything he had for others.
I have always admired Michael Jackson. His music will live on forever.
From the beginning of my career, he was my idol in show business. He was a genius and an incredible artist!
I feel so thankful for him sharing his brilliance
I just found him a very giving and loving person.
If it were not for Micheal Jackson I would not be where or who I am today.
I can't believe. The most amazing entertainer of all Time just left. I just can't understand. We Will always love you Michael.
A major strand of our cultural DNA has left us.
He was a massively talented boy man with a gentle soul.
I will be mourning my friend, brother, mentor and inspiration.. He gave me and my family hope. I would never have been me without him.
MICHAEL JACKSON the first 2 english words i eva spoke. The future sucx!
I am so sadened by MJs death. I clung to those records throughout my childhood. A complete musical hero of mine. May he rest in peace.
Rarely has the world received a gift with the magnitude of artistry, talent, and vision as Michael Jackson. He was a true musical icon.
I have never felt this before in my life. I could measure my childhood 2 now on an mj growth chart. if this is true.The last legend.
