the emperor himself would be like shaking hands with history.
I like friends who have independent minds because they tend to make you see problems from all angles.
I have never regarded any man as my superior, either in my life outside or inside prison.
Only free men can negotiate; prisoners cannot enter into contracts. Your freedom and mine cannot be separated.
I never think of the time I have lost. I just carry out a programme because it’s there. It’s mapped out for me.
I had no specific belief except that our cause was just, was very strong and it was winning more and more support.
It is in the character of growth that we should learn from both pleasant and unpleasant experiences.
Real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the freedom of their people.
Long live the Cuban revolution! Long live Comrade Fidel Castro!
When a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw.
A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination.
In my country we go to prison first and then become President.
There is nothing like returning to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which you yourself have altered.
The greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
You may succeed in delaying, but never in preventing the transition of South Africa to a democracy.
Any man that tries to rob me of my dignity will lose.
The victory of democracy in South Africa is the common achievement of all humanity.
I always knew that someday I would once again feel the grass under my feet and walk in the sunshine as a free man.
I have always believed that exercise is the key not only to physical health but to peace of mind.
I detest racialism because I regard it as a barbaric thing, whether it comes from a black man or a white man.
If you want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner.
Let's hope that Ken Oosterbroek will be the last person to die.
We tried in our simple way to lead our life in a manner that may make a difference to those of others.
I cannot conceive of Israel withdrawing if the Arab states do not recognize Israel, within secure borders.
