Unfortunately, you can't vote the rascals out, because you never voted them in, in the first place.
...roughly speaking, states are violent to the extent that they have the power to act in the interests of those with domestic power...
The uniformity and obedience of the media, which any dictator would admire, ...
Intrinsic (psychological) structure is rich . . . and diverse.
Skinner to Piaget (who differ on much else).
A lot of the people who call themselves Left I would regard as proto-fascists.
Of course, everybody says they're for peace. Hitler was for peace. Everybody is for peace. The question is: "What kind of peace?"
If the Nuremberg laws were applied, then every post-war American president would have been hanged.
If we don't believe in free expression for people we despise, we don't believe in it at all.
The Tet Offensive in January of 1968 Johnson changed it. If you look at the earlier memoirs, not a hint, I mean literally.
"Tough love" is just the right phrase: love for the rich and privileged, tough for everyone else.
I compared Lenin didn't bring God in. He brought Marx in.
Enlightenment figure in the United States, along with wage labor, which was considered an abomination under classical liberal principles.
Cobb County Georgia gets more federal subsidies than any suburban county in the country, outside of the federal system itself.
Stability means we run it. There are countries that are very stable. Cuba is stable, but that’s not called stability.
Wanton killing of innocent civilians is terrorism, not a "war against terrorism."
I choose to live in what I think is the greatest country in the world, which is committing horrendous terrorist acts and should stop.
There's a good reason why nobody studies history. It just teaches you too much.
The invasion of Iraq was simply a war crime. Straight-out war crime.
We're supposed to worship Adam Smith but you're not supposed to read him. That's too dangerous. He's a dangerous radical.
Noam Chomsky's idea that Bill Clinton's missile strike on a pharmaceutical plant in Sudan was worse than "9/11" is plain silly.
Noam Chomsky, one of America's greatest philosophers and linguists...
It's hard to imagine any American reading this book and not seeing his country in a new, and deeply troubling, light.
Chomsky, you're a New World Order shill, and I've got twice the brain you've got with both arms tied behind my back.
Craig Kilborn: Name your favorite Charlie's Angel. Give you some time to think of that. John Cleese: Noam Chomsky.
I don't pretend to think I'm as smart as Noam Chomsky, but I'm smart enough to ask him questions.
Chomsky’s triumphalistic rhetoric is inversely proportional to the actual empirical results that he can point to.
Chomsky is an irresistible example of the quality problem that besets the market for academic public intellectuals.
Noam Chomsky: He's really an interventionist - and also completely clueless.
Noam Chomsky is so far out on the lunatic fringe that even the sensible things he has to say are lost.
Yet Thoreau and Emerson in the literature of rebellion.
Chomsky says America is a warring country seeking to build an empire, not a liberator trying to achieve peace, freedom, and democracy.
Nadine Gordimer ''Telling Times'' 472. (See ''The Quotable Chomsky''.)
Steven Pinker ''How the Mind Works'', explaining Chomsky's position. (See ''The Quotable Chomsky'').
