I have the simplest tastes. I am always satisfied with the best.
Tread Lightly, she is near Under the snow, Speak gently, she can hear The daisies grow.
Lo! with a little rod I did but touch the honey of romance — And must I lose a soul's inheritance?
And down the long and silent street, The dawn, with silver-sandalled feet, Crept like a frightened girl.
Be warned in time, James, and remain, as I do, incomprehensible: to be great is to be misunderstood.
A thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it.
Consistency is the last refuge of the unimaginative.
A poet can survive everything but a misprint.
A simile committing suicide is always a depressing spectacle.
We have really everything in common with America nowadays, except, of course, language.
It is always a silly thing to give advice, but to give good advice is absolutely fatal.
All charming people, I fancy, are spoiled. It is the secret of their attraction.
He is really not so ugly after all, provided, of course, that one shuts one's eyes, and does not look at him.
le mystère de l'amour est plus grand que le mystère de la mort.
The mystery of love is greater than the mystery of death.
I put all my genius into my life; I put only my talent into my works.
On George Bernard Shaw An excellent man: he has no enemies, and none of his friends like him.
I summed up all systems in a phrase, and all existence in an epigram.
It is better to have a permanent income than to be fascinating.
Tell me, when you are alone with him Max Beerbohm Sphinx, does he take off his face and reveal his mask?
One can survive everything nowadays except death.
Psycholog­y is in its infancy, as a science. I hope in the interests of Art, it will always remain so.
I have the kiss of Walt Whitman still on my lip.
Prayer must never be answered: if it is, it ceases to be prayer and becomes correspondence.
Fool, nothing is impossible in Russia but reform.
Reforms in Russia are very tragic, but they always end in a farce.
Life is much too important a thing ever to talk seriously about it.
There is always more brass than brains in an aristocracy.
Good kings are the enemies of democracy.
Heaven is a despotism. I shall be at home there.
There are few things easier than to live badly and to die well.
Experience, the name men give to their mistakes.
Indifference is the revenge the world takes on mediocrities.
When a man has no enemy left there must be something mean about him.
Hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do.
It is always the unreadable that occurs.
His style is chaos illumined by flashes of lightning.
Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life.
No great artist ever sees things as they really are. If he did, he would cease to be an artist.
Meredith is a prose Browning, and so is Browning. He used poetry as a medium for writing in prose.
Anybody can make history. Only a great man can write it.
Every great man nowadays has his disciples, and it is always Judas who writes the biography.
Truth, in the matters of religion, is simply the opinion that has survived.
Oh! journalism is unreadable, and literature is not read.
The one duty we owe to history is to rewrite it.
It is well for his peace that the saint goes to his martyrdom. He is spared the sight of the horror of his harvest.
Action ... is the last resource of those who know not how to dream.
Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.
A little sincerity is a dangerous thing, and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal.
Ah! Don't say you agree with me. When people agree with me I always feel I must be wrong.
It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious.
I can resist everything except temptation.
Life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about it.
I am the only person in the world I should like to know thoroughly.
My experience is that as soon as people are old enough to know better, they don't know anything at all.
Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.
My own business always bores me to death. I prefer other people's.
Gossip is charming! History is merely gossip. But scandal is gossip made tedious by morality.
We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.
In this world there are only two tragedies. One is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.
A man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. Answering the question, what is a cynic?
What a pity that in life we only get our lessons when they are of no use to us.
The growing influence of women is the one reassuring thing in our political life.
The youth of America is their oldest tradition. It has been going on now for three hundred years.
The English country gentleman galloping after a fox — the unspeakable in full pursuit of the uneatable.
Lord Illingworth: The Book of Life begins with a man and a woman in a garden. Mrs. Allonby: It ends with Revelations.
Men marry because they are tired; women because they are curious. Both are disappointed.
I am always astonishing myself. It is the only thing that makes life worth living.
Moderation is a fatal thing, Lady Hunstanton. Nothing succeeds like excess.
The only difference between the saint and the sinner is that every saint has a past and every sinner has a future.
Children love their parents. Eventually they come to judge them. Rarely do they forgive them.
The English are always degrading truths into facts. When a truth becomes a fact it loses all its intellectual value.
It is a very sad thing that nowadays there is so little useless information.
Friendship is far more tragic than love. It lasts longer.
Art is the only serious thing in the world. And the artist is the only person who is never serious.
Ambition is the last refuge of the failure.
Religions die when they are proved to be true. Science is the record of dead religions.
If one tells the truth, one is sure, sooner or later, to be found out.
In examinations the foolish ask questions that the wise cannot answer.
The old believe everything; the middle-aged suspect everything; the young know everything.
To love oneself is the beginning of a life-long romance.
One should always be a little improbable.
The only way to atone for being occasionally a little over-dressed is by being always absolutely over-educated.
Really, if the lower orders don't set us a good example, what on earth is the use of them?
My dear fellow, the truth isn't quite the sort of thing one tells to a nice, sweet, refined girl.
The only way to behave to a woman is to make love to her if she is pretty and to someone else if she is plain.
Ah! That must be Aunt Augusta. Only relatives, or creditors, ever ring in that Wagnerian manner.
To lose one parent may be regarded as a misfortune … to lose both seems like carelessness.
An engagement should come on a young girl as a surprise, pleasant or unpleasant as the case may be.
All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man does. That's his.
In married life, three is company, and two is none.
I have always been of opinion that a man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing.
All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man does. That’s his.
Memory is the diary that we all carry about with us.
I never travel without my diary. One should always have something sensational to read in the train.
The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily. That is what Fiction means.
Never speak disrespectfully of Society, Algernon. Only people who can’t get into it do that.
I've now realized for the first time in my life the vital Importance of Being Earnest.
If you are not too long, I will wait here for you all my life.
Science can never grapple with the irrational. That is why it has no future before it, in this world.
Even you are not rich enough, Sir Robert, to buy back your past. No man is.
I always pass on good advice. It is the only thing to do with it. It is never of any use to oneself.
Sooner or later we have all to pay for what we do.
Only dull people are brilliant at breakfast.
I love talking about nothing, father. It is the only thing I know anything about.
Women have a wonderful instinct about things. They can discover everything except the obvious.
All sins, except a sin against itself, Love should forgive. All lives, save loveless lives, true Love should pardon.
Fashion is what one wears oneself. What is unfashionable is what other people wear.
To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.
However, it is always nice to be expected, and not to arrive.
Oh, why will parents always appear at the wrong time? Some extraordinary mistake in nature, I suppose.
Women are never disarmed by compliments. Men always are.
When one pays a visit it is for the purpose of wasting other people's time, not one's own.
If we men married the women we deserved, we should have a very bad time of it.
I don't at all like knowing what people say of me behind my back. It makes me far too conceited.
Now don't stir. I'll be back in five minutes. And don't fall into any temptations while I am away.
As for begging, it is safer to beg than to take, but it is finer to take than to beg.
Wherever there is a man who exercises authority, there is a man who resists authority.
The note of the perfect personality is not rebellion, but peace.
There is only one class in the community that thinks more about money than the rich, and that is the poor.
Man reaches his perfection, not through what he has, not even through what he does, but entirely through what he is.
The things people say of a man do not alter a man. He is what he is. Public opinion is of no value whatsoever.
All authority is quite degrading. It degrades those who exercise it, and degrades those over whom it is exercised.
When private property is abolished there will be no necessity for crime, no demand for it; it will cease to exist.
Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known.
In the old days men had the rack. Now they have the Press.
Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to live as one wishes to live.
A man who does not think for himself does not think at all.
I have said to you to speak the truth is a painful thing. To be forced to tell lies is much worse.
A thing is, according to the mode in which one looks at it.
Only good questions deserve good answers.
It seems to me that we all look at Nature too much, and live with her too little.
We are specially designed to appeal to the sense of humour.
We are the zanies of sorrow. We are clowns whose hearts are broken.
Where there is sorrow there is holy ground.
For a sentimentalist is simply one who desires to have the luxury of an emotion without paying for it.
I never saw a man who looked With such a wistful eye Upon that little tent of blue Which prisoners call the sky.
When a voice behind me whispered low, "That fellow's got to swing."
Something was dead in each of us, And what was dead was Hope.
And all, but Lust, is turned to dust In Humanity's machine.
How else but through a broken heart May Lord Christ enter in?
From the beginning Wilde performed his life and continued to do so even after fate had taken the plot out of his hands.
An Assyrian wax statue, effeminate, but with the vitality of twenty men.
Am reading more of Oscar Wilde. What a tiresome, affected sod.
No, I've never cared for his work. Too scented.
Men lived more vividly in his presence, and talked better than themselves.
He was never quite sure himself where and when he was serious.
The dinner table was Wilde's event and made him the greatest talker of his time…
Why was I born with such contemporaries?
I'm not young enough to know everything.
