I am a raging alcoholic, but I don't want my kids to do the same.
I love you all; I love you more than life itself, but you're all fucking mad!
We are not going to continue until we hear the fucking roof rattle.
I like the word fuck. Fucking deal with it and move on to the first fucking question you have.
I push this one button and the shower goes on and I think, where the fuck am I?
I hate these fucking stretch bastards junk pimp mobiles!
Turn that thing off, its driving me mad!
International rock star - gravy maker extraordinaire.
You don't need to hire a dog therapist, you just need to wake up at 7 am and open the fucking door!
Well, its not that bad. I thought she was going to show me a picture of uhhhh...an eagle on her ass or something.
All you have to do is say Fuck Off when the vagina doctor calls.
''Kelly, after he's become suspicious'' You haven't been playing doctors and nurses have you?
Its like Dr. Doolittle in this fucking house here.
No we won't -- no we won't break the law Sharon.
Weather in Afghanistan, 2000 degrees and cloudy. What the fuck am I doing? I'm stuck on the weather channel. AHHH!
How the fuck you feed a tree?...What...you put a ham sandwich on the tree?
''while lighting a fire on the beach'' Fuck! Go to Alaska! No, no, no, no. You fucking asshole ocean! No!
I've done a lot worse than jump off piers, son. Like throw a television out the window.
I have no regrets except that I wasn't up to keep Randy (Rhoads) from getting on that plane.
There is something fucking unbelievable about seeing all of the fans go crazy and chanting 'Ozzy!' I would pay to see them..
I like the smell of armpits in the morning. It's like victory.
I'm not picking up dog shit. I'm a rock star.
''on Kelly's drummer friend'' Anyone that beats fucking skins for a living has got to be somewhat weird.
Sometimes I'm scared of being Ozzy Osbourne. But it could have been worse. I could have been Sting.
People say it's hard at the top, but it's even harder at the bottom.
I wonder where that bat is now? Maybe he's sitting in Bat Heaven somewhere, with his own bat roadies...
People look to me and say Is the end near, when is the final day? What's the future of mankind? How do I know, I got left behind
Everybody's having fun, except me I'm the lonely one I live in shame.
You've got to believe in yourself Or no one will believe in you Imagination like a bird on the wing Flying free for you to use
Howling in the shadows, living in a lunar spell, he finds his heaven, spewing from the mouth of hell.
I'm just a Rock and Roll Rebel, I tell you no lies, they say I worship the devil, they must be stupid or blind
I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired.
There Are No Unachievable Goals There Are No Unsaveable Souls No Legitimate Kings Or Queens, Do You Know What I Mean?
I'm not the kind of person you think I am, I'm not the anti-Christ, or the iron man.
If only we could all just find serenity It would be nice if we could live as one When will all this anger, hate and bigotry... Be gone?
I can't believe I'm still here, I know I should be dead.
Dreams that men can be good, Faith to live as we should and know we're all connected, We give ourselves the power
We all must stand together now A one by one we fall For all these years you stood by me God bless I love you all
I just can't wake from these scary dreams.
