No evil can happen to a good man, neither in life nor after death.
The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our ways — I to die, and you to live. Which is better God only knows.
For once touched by love, everyone becomes a poet
τίς μηχανὴ μὴ οὐχὶ πάντα καταναλωθῆναι εἰς τὸ τεθνάναι;
False words are not only evil in themselves, but they infect the soul with evil.
When there is an income tax, the just man will pay more and the unjust less on the same amount of income.
Mankind censure injustice fearing that they may be the victims of it, and not because they shrink from committing it.
God is not the author of all things, but of good only.
The gods are not magicians who transform themselves; neither do they deceive mankind in any way.
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
A fit of laughter, which has been indulged to excess, almost always produces a violent reaction.
When the citizens of a society can see and hear their leaders, then that society should be seen as one.
Everything that deceives may be said to enchant.
Wealth is the parent of luxury and indolence, and poverty of meanness and viciousness, and both of discontent.
The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future life.
Look, ye wretches, take your fill of the fair sight.
The knowledge at which geometry aims is the knowledge of the eternal.
The ludicrous state of solid geometry made me pass over this branch.
I have hardly ever known a mathematician who was capable of reasoning.
No human thing is of serious importance.
It is impossible to conceive of many without one.
Just as things in a picture, when viewed from a distance, appear to be all in one and the same condition and alike.
ἡδονήν, μέγιστον κακοῡ δέλεαρ
The greatest penalty of evildoing is to grow into the likeness of bad men.
Of all animals, the boy is the most unmanageable.
I shall assume that your silence gives consent
Aristotle has kicked us off, just as chickens do their mother after they have been hatched."
Atheism is a disease of the soul, before it becomes an error of the understanding.
Watch a man at play for an hour and you can learn more about him than in talking to him for a year.
What is Plato, but Moses speaking in Attic Greek?
