What worries me about religion is that it teaches people to be satisfied with not understanding.
It's almost impossible to say anything against Islam in this country, because you are accused of being racist or Islamophobic.
I do feel visceral revulsion at the burka because for me it is a symbol of the oppression of women.
I'm not clever enough to be a physicist.
“I’m sure Kennedy was an atheist, but I doubt if Pope Frank is.
We no longer have to resort to superstition when faced with the deep problems: Is there a meaning to life? What are we for? What is man?
The meme for blind faith secures its own perpetuation by the simple unconscious expedient of discouraging rational inquiry.
Today the theory of evolution is about as much open to doubt as the theory that the earth goes round the sun.
The argument of this book is that we, and all other animals, are machines created by our genes.
Let us try to teach generosity and altruism, because we are born selfish.
The genes are the master programmers, and they are programming for their lives.
Whenever a system of communication evolves, there is always the danger that some will exploit the system for their own ends.
Darwin made it possible to be an intellectually fulfilled atheist.
Mutation is random; natural selection is the very opposite of random.
Human vanity cherishes the absurd notion that our species is the final goal of evolution.
Natural selection is all about the differential success of rival DNA in getting itself transmitted vertically in the species archives.
Our subjective judgment of what seems like a good bet is irrelevant to what is actually a good bet.
Contrary to earlier prejudices, there is nothing inherently progressive about evolution.
Evolution normally does not come to a halt, but constantly ‘tracks’ the changing environment.
There has been progress in design, but not progress in accomplishment.
There are people in the world who desperately want not to have to believe in Darwinism.
This not only misses the point, it is the precise antithesis of the point.
The world becomes full of organisms that have what it takes to become ancestors. That, in a sentence, is Darwinism.
… you need more than luck to navigate successfully through a thousand sieves in succession.
What is truly revolutionary about molecular biology in the post-Watson-Crick era is that it has become digital.
Scientific beliefs are supported by evidence, and they get results. Myths and faiths are not and do not.
Your DNA may be destined to mingle with mine. Salutations!
If there is mercy in nature, it is accidental. Nature is neither kind nor cruel but indifferent.
Religion is the most inflammatory enemy-labelling device in history.
This is where they come into their own, for there's money in hope: the more desperate the hope, the richer the pickings.
Religion is about turning untested belief into unshakable truth through the power of institutions and the passage of time.
One of the things that is wrong with religion is that it teaches us to be satisfied with answers which are not really answers at all.
I want to say that killing for God is not only hideous murder &mdash; it is also utterly ridiculous. (Part 1, 00:44:39)
And when we look closely, we find a system of morals which any civilised person today should surely find poisonous.
We are all atheists about most of the gods that societies have ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further.
Pantheism is sexed-up atheism. Deism is watered-down theism. (p. 40)
We should be open-minded, but not so open-minded that our brain falls out.
Science replaces private prejudice with publicly verifiable evidence.
So whereabouts in my body might there be a black hole?
Isn't Deepak Chopra just exploiting Quantum jargon as plausible-sounding hocus pocus?
Gravity is not a version of the truth. It is the truth. Anybody who doubts it is invited to jump out of a tenth-floor window.
Haven't read Koran so couldn't quote chapter & verse like I can for Bible. But often say Islam greatest force for evil today
With respect to those meanings of "human" that are relevant to the morality of abortion, any fetus is less human than an adult pig.
Those people who think sexual abuse is a black-or-white, all-or-none category are incapable of clear, logical thought.
I'm told theology is outside my field of expertise. But is theology a "field" at all? Is there anything in "theology" to be expert ABOUT?
I hate the neologism "owned" for "scored a victory over". I have no intention of owning anyone, and nobody will ever own me.
Don't ask God to cure cancer & world poverty. He's too busy finding you a parking space & fixing the weather for your barbecue.
All the world's Muslims have fewer Nobel Prizes than Trinity College, Cambridge. They did great things in the Middle Ages, though.
Who (apart from the pig) is damaged by bacon?
Suggest always put Islamic "scholar" in quotes, to avoid insulting true scholars. True scholars have read more than one book.
Abort it and try again. It would be immoral to bring it into the world if you have the choice.
Richard Dawkins is arguably England's most pious atheist.
