Before I go on, I want to ask if there are any Hell's Angels here tonight? ''no response'' … Those pussy-whipped faggots!
Death is nature's way of saying, "Your table is ready."
Comedy can be a cathartic way to deal with personal trauma.
I'd like to start the show by showing you something I'm very proud of. You'll have to step back, though.
''as a Shakespearean narrator'' Mind not my words — Let the ''play'' be the thing. I'll get back forth and touch myself anon.
I wonder what chairs think about all day: "Oh, here comes another asshole."
The sound crapped out for a bit, that's why I'm using SupposiSound! No one wants their tapes back, I wonder why.
We were talking briefly about cocaine...yeah. Anything that makes you paranoid and impotent, give me more of that!
The Second Amendment! It says you have the right to bear arms, or the right to arm bears, whatever the hell you want to do!
Thank you. How-DY! Whoops, wrong opera house. How do you like the play, Mr. Lincoln? Duck!
The professor was on acid, and sometimes he'd shout, "I'm Lincoln!" And then, there'd be a kid in the back, "I'm Booth!"
I'd like to welcome you the AOPA. There's also aa-AOPA. If this is your first time flying a plane on alcohol, I'd like to welcome ya!
Imitating Pavarotti. "It is amazing I know it is huge. BEHOLD IT. IT IS GROWING. ALL OF MY PHALLUS IS A SHOWING!"
And that's when you realize that God gave you a penis and a brain, and only enough blood to run one at a time.
Dubya doesn't speak while Cheney's drinking water. Check that shit out.
And if you want a linguistic adventure, go drinking with a Scotsman. Cause you can't fucking understand them ''before''!
Welcome to Washington, D.C., where the buck stops here! Way to go. And then it's handed out to AIG and many other people.
And if you're looking for new book, it is a bitch to find! I found it somewhere between fiction and non-fiction, in the fantasy aisle.
My favorite athletes of any Olympics are always the African distance runners. You ''never'' have to drug test an African distance runner.
You know the difference between a tornado and divorce in the south? Nothing! Someone is losing a trailer.
We still have great comedy out there. There's always ramblin' Tourette's go "no..."
Is it rude to Twitter during sex? To go "omg, omg, wtf, zzz"? Is that rude?
I went to rehab for alcoholism in wine country, just to keep my options open.
a woman can handle a war, ask the Argentinians.
