Of all the Griefs that harrass the Distrest, Sure the most bitter is a scornful Jest
This mournful truth is ev'rywhere confessed — Slow rises worth, by poverty depressed.
There Poetry shall tune her sacred voice, And wake from ignorance the Western World.
The reciprocal civility of authors is one of the most risible scenes in the farce of life.
Liberty is, to the lowest rank of every nation, little more than the choice of working or starving.
Nature has given women so much power that the law has very wisely given them little.
The only end of writing is to enable the readers better to enjoy life, or better to endure it.
How is it that we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of negroes?
This world, where much is to be done and little to be known.
Here closed in death th' attentive eyes That saw the manners in the face.
He who praises everybody praises nobody.
Books that you may carry to the fire, and hold readily in your hand, are the most useful after all.
I never desire to converse with a man who has written more than he has read.
A man is in general better pleased when he has a good dinner upon his table, than when his wife talks Greek.
Abstinence is as easy to me as temperance would be difficult.
What is written without effort is in general read without pleasure.
He who makes a ''beast'' of himself gets rid of the pain of being a man.
From Thee, great God: we spring, to Thee we tend, Path, motive, guide, original, and end.
It is more from carelessness about truth than from intentional lying that there is so much falsehood in the world.
The richest author that ever grazed the common of literature.
Cold approbation gave the ling'ring bays, For those who durst not censure, scarce could praise.
Declamation roared, while Passion slept.
Let observation with extensive view Survey mankind, from China to Peru.
But, scarce observ'd, the knowing and the bold Fall in the gen'ral massacre of gold.
A frame of adamant, a soul of fire, No dangers fright him, and no labors tire.
He left the name at which the world grew pale, To point a moral, or adorn a tale.
An age that melts in unperceiv'd decay, And glides in modest innocence away.
Superfluous lags the vet'ran on the stage.
Must helpless man, in ignorance sedate, Roll darkling down the torrent of his fate?
For patience, sov'reign o'er transmuted ill.
With these celestial Wisdom calms the mind, And makes the happiness she does not find.
Men more frequently require to be reminded than informed.
Frugality may be termed the daughter of Prudence, the sister of Temperance and the parent of Liberty.
There are, in every age, new errors to be rectified, and new prejudices to be opposed.
In order that all men may be taught to speak truth, it is necessary that all likewise should learn to hear it.
Curiosity is one of the permanent and certain characteristics of a vigorous intellect.
No man is much pleased with a companion, who does not increase, in some respect, his fondness for himself.
No place affords a more striking conviction of the vanity of human hopes than a public library.
Almost all absurdity of conduct arises from the imitation of those whom we cannot resemble.
No oppression is so heavy or lasting as that which is inflicted by the perversion and exorbitance of legal authority.
That he delights in the misery of others no man will confess, and yet what other motive can make a father cruel?
Every quotation contributes something to the stability or enlargement of the language.
CLUB — An assembly of good fellows, meeting under certain conditions.
ESSAY — A loose sally of the mind; an irregular indigested piece; not a regular and orderly composition.
LEXICOGRAPHER — A writer of dictionaries, a harmless drudge.
NETWORK — Any thing reticulated or decussated, at equal distances, with interstices between the intersections.
OATS — A grain which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people.
Slavery is now no where more patiently endured, than in countries once inhabited by the zealots of liberty.
The joy of life is variety; the tenderest love requires to be renewed by intervals of absence.
Promise, large promise, is the soul of an advertisement.
He is no wise man that will quit a certainty for an uncertainty.
Merriment is always the effect of a sudden impression. The jest which is expected is already destroyed.
We are inclined to believe those whom we do not know, because they have never deceived us.
Nothing … will ever be attempted, if all possible objections must be first overcome.
Human life is everywhere a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed.
A man used to vicissitudes is not easily dejected.
Few things are impossible to diligence and skill.
Knowledge is more than equivalent to force. The master of mechanicks laughs at strength.
I live in the crowd of jollity, not so much to enjoy company as to shun myself.
Many things difficult to design prove easy to performance.
Marriage has many pains, but celibacy has no pleasures.
The first years of man must make provision for the last.
Example is always more efficacious than precept.
Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless, and knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful.
The endearing elegance of female friendship.
The world is not yet exhausted: let me see something to-morrow which I never saw before.
The true Genius is a mind of large general powers, accidentally determined to some particular direction.
Self-confidence is the first requisite to great undertakings.
New things are made familiar, and familiar things are made new.
Poetry is the art of uniting pleasure with truth, by calling imagination to the help of reason.
He delighted to tread upon the brink of meaning.
Officious, innocent, sincere, Of every friendless name the friend.
And sure th' Eternal Master found His single talent well employ'd.
A man may write at any time, if he will set himself doggedly.
Wickedness is always easier than virtue; for it takes the short cut to everything.
Gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation; you do not find it among gross people.
A cucumber should be well sliced, and dressed with pepper and vinegar, and then thrown out, as good for nothing.
Come, let me know what it is that makes a Scotchman happy!
There is in this world no real delight (excepting those of sensuality), but exchange of ideas in conversation.
The law is the last result of human wisdom acting upon human experience for the benefit of the public.
Dictionaries are like watches; the worst is better than none, and the best cannot be expected to go quite true.
A generous and elevated mind is distinguished by nothing more certainly than an eminent degree of curiosity.
Of Lord Chesterfield This man, I thought, had been a Lord among wits; but, I find, he is only a wit among Lords!
A fly, Sir, may sting a stately horse and make him wince; but one is but an insect, and the other is a horse still.
Towering is the confidence of twenty-one.
Hope is itself a species of happiness, and, perhaps, the chief happiness which this world affords.
Nothing is little to him that feels it with great sensibility.
A man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself.
A man ought to read just as inclination leads him; for what he reads as a task will do him little good.
Why, Sir, it is difficult to settle the proportion of iniquity between them.
It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives. The act of dying is not of importance, it lasts so short a time.
That fellow seems to me to possess but one idea, and that is a wrong one.
A decent provision for the poor is the true test of civilization.
A cow is a very good animal in the field; but we turn her out of a garden.
Read over your compositions, and wherever you meet with a passage which you think is particularly fine, strike it out.
Attack is the reaction; I never think I have hit hard unless it rebounds.
A man will turn over half a library to make one book.
Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.
Knowledge is of two kinds. We know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it.
This is one of the disadvantages of wine, it makes a man mistake words for thoughts.
No man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money.
Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment.
Sir, you have but two topicks, yourself and me. I am sick of both.
Depend upon it, Sir, when a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully.
When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life; for there is in London all that life can afford.
Here's to the next insurrection of the negroes in the West Indies.
It is more from carelessness about truth than from intentional lying, that there is so much falsehood in the world.
All argument is against it; but all belief is for it.
It is man's own fault, it is from want of use, if his mind grows torpid in old age.
Every man thinks meanly of himself for not having been a soldier, or not having been at sea.
Every state of society is as luxurious as it can be. Men always take the best they can get.
A country governed by a despot is an inverted cone.
I am willing to love all mankind, ''except an American.''
All theory is against the freedom of the will; all experience for it.
It is better to live rich, than to die rich.
All censure of a man's self is oblique praise. It is in order to shew how much he can spare.
Wine makes a man more pleased with himself. I do not say that it makes him more pleasing to others.
Were it not for imagination, Sir, a man would be as happy in the arms of a chambermaid as of a Duchess.
I would rather be attacked than unnoticed. For the worst thing you can do to an author is to be silent as to his works.
Claret is the liquor for boys; port for men; but he who aspires to be a hero must drink brandy.
A man who exposes himself when he is intoxicated, has not the art of getting drunk.
Worth seeing? yes; but not worth going to see.
If you are idle, be not solitary; if you are solitary, be not idle.
Greek, sir, is like lace; every man gets as much of it as he can.
No man was more foolish when he had not a pen in his hand, or more wise when he had.
The applause of a single human being is of great consequence.
Classical quotation is the ''parole'' of literary men all over the world.
A man may be so much of every thing, that he is nothing of any thing.
A man might write such stuff for ever, if he would ''abandon'' his mind to it.
Sir, there is no settling the point of precedency between a louse and a flea.
I never have sought the world; the world was not to seek me.
It might as well be said, "Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat."
It is as bad as bad can be: it is ill-fed, ill-killed, ill-kept, and ill-drest.
Milton, Madam, was a genius that could cut a Colossus from a rock; but could not carve heads upon cherry-stones.
Sir, I have found you an argument; but I am not obliged to find you an understanding.
Sir, I look upon every day to be lost, in which I do not make a new acquaintance.
I will be conquered; I will not capitulate.
Trade's proud empire hastes to swift decay.
Words are men's daughters, but God's sons are things.
The trappings of a monarchy would set up an ordinary commonwealth.
He is no wise man that will quit a certainty for an uncertainty.
A fellow that makes no figure in company, and has a mind as narrow as the neck of a vinegar-cruet.
I am glad that he thanks God for anything.
Sir, your levellers wish to level down as far as themselves; but they cannot bear levelling up to themselves.
I look upon it, that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind anything else.
This was a good dinner enough, to be sure, but it was not a dinner to ask a man to.
I am a great friend to public amusements; for they keep people from vice.
Much may be made of a Scotchman if he be caught young.
I never take a nap after dinner but when I have had a bad night; and then the nap takes me.
In lapidary inscriptions a man is not upon oath.
Questioning is not the mode of conversation among gentlemen.
All this wealth excludes but one evil,—poverty.
Employment, sir, and hardships prevent melancholy.
He was so generally civil that nobody thanked him for it.
Goldsmith, however, was a man who whatever he wrote, did it better than any other man could do.
The true, strong, and sound mind is the mind that can embrace equally great things and small.
The potentiality of growing rich beyond the dreams of avarice.
He is not only dull himself, but the cause of dullness in others.
Blown about with every wind of criticism.
As with my hat upon my head I walk'd along the Strand, I there did meet another man With his hat in his hand.
The limbs will quiver and move after the soul is gone.
His conversation does not show the minute-hand, but he strikes the hour very correctly.
Hunting was the labour of the savages of North America, but the amusement of the gentlemen of England.
Fraud and falsehood only dread examination. Truth invites it.
Indeed, the freedom with which Dr. Johnson condemns whatever he disapproves of is astonishing.
