It is a capital mistake to theorize before you have all the evidence. It biases the judgment.
When a fact appears to be opposed to a long train of deductions, it invariably proves to be capable of bearing some other interpretation.
There is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing footsteps.
I had no idea that such individuals exist outside of stories.
Eliminate all other factors, and the one which remains must be the truth.
I never guess. It is a shocking habit — destructive to the logical faculty.
I never make exceptions. An exception disproves the rule.
How often have I said to you that when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, ''however improbable'', must be the truth?
It is the unofficial force — the Baker Street irregulars.
You see, but you do not observe. The distinction is clear.
I know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life.
It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg that you won't speak to me for fifty minutes.
There is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace.
The little things are infinitely the most important.
Never trust to general impressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upon details.
Singularity is almost invariably a clue. The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it is to bring it home.
There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact.
You know my method. It is founded upon the observation of trifles.
It is, of course, a trifle, but there is nothing so important as trifles.
My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other people don't know.
"When a doctor does go wrong, he is the first of criminals. He has the nerve and he has the knowledge."
Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another.
It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
"Data! Data! Data!" he cried impatiently. "I can't make bricks without clay."
The lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside.
"I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they seem to you to be relevant or not."
Nothing clears up a case so much as stating it to another person.
It is more than possible; it is probable.
That is the case as it appears to the police, and improbable as it is, all other explanations are more improbable still.
Any truth is better than indefinite doubt.
I am afraid that I rather give myself away when I explain. Results without causes are much more impressive.
Watson here will tell you that I never can resist a touch of the dramatic.
Out of my last 53 cases 49 have been given full credit to the police and the rest to me.
If I were assured of your eventual destruction I would, in the interests of the public, cheerfully accept my own.
Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!
We balance probabilities and choose the most likely. It is the scientific use of the imagination.
There is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you.
You never tire of the moor. You cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains. It is so vast, and so barren, and so mysterious.
There is no prospect of danger, or I should not dream of stirring out without you.
What one man can invent another can discover.
I have never been in Africa in my life, so you can put that in your pipe and smoke it, Mr. Busybody Holmes!
It ''is'' impossible as I state it, and therefore I must in some respect have stated it wrong.
There can be no question, my dear Watson, of the value of exercise before breakfast.
One should always look for a possible alternative, and provide against it. It is the first rule of criminal investigation.
Let us hear the suspicions. I will look after the proofs.
There is so much red tape in these matters.
"Come, Watson, come!" he cried. "The game is afoot. Not a word! Into your clothes and come!"
What I know is unofficial; what he knows is official.
Now, Watson, the fair sex is your department.
Only one important thing has happened in the last three days, and that is that nothing has happened.
It is a capital mistake to theorise in advance of the facts.
The vocabulary of Bradshaw is nervous and terse, but limited.
Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself; but talent instantly recognizes genius.
There should be no combination of events for which the wit of man cannot conceive an explanation.
Birdy Edwards is here. I am Birdy Edwards!
There is but one step from the grotesque to the horrible.
There is no part of the body which varies so much as the human ear.
Education never ends Watson. It is a series of lessons with the greatest for the last.
We must fall back upon the old axiom that when all other contingencies fail, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
Everything in this world is relative, my dear Watson.
Holmes, you are not yourself. A sick man is but a child.
You fidget me beyond endurance. You, a doctor — you are enough to drive a patient into an asylum.
Indeed, I cannot think why the whole bed of the ocean is not one solid mass of oysters, so prolific the creatures seem.
You and I, Watson, we have done our part. Shall the world, then, be overrun by oysters? No, no; horrible!
But I have reasons to suppose that this opinion would be very much more frank and valuable if he imagines that we are alone
Three days of absolute fast does not improve one's beauty, Watson.
Malingering is a subject upon which I have sometimes thought of writing a monograph.
I think, Watson, that I shall resume that course of tobacco-poisoning which you have so often and so justly condemned.
To let the brain work without sufficient material is like racing an engine. It racks itself to pieces.
We are devil-ridden, Mr. Holmes! My poor parish is devil-ridden! Satan himself is loose in it! We are given over into his hands!
It is not for me, my dear Watson, to stand in the way of the official police force.
Surely the clearest proof of it is that, knowing what I know, I have sent for you and not for the police.
I have heard your reasons and regard them as unconvincing and inadequate. We will pass that.
Some fumes which are not poisonous would be a welcome change.
It may be some fussy, self-important fool; it may be a matter of life or death.
A complex mind. All great criminals have that.
When you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
I am not the law, but I represent justice so far as my feeble powers go.
We must not let him think that this agency is a home for the weak-minded.
In my profession all sorts of odd knowledge comes useful, and this room of yours is a storehouse of it.
Well, Watson, we can but possess our souls in patience and see what the hour may bring.
We must look for consistency. Where there is a want of it we must suspect deception.
Come at once if convenient — if inconvenient come all the same.
That the dog should die was after the beautiful, faithful nature of dogs.
I am an omnivorous reader with a strangely retentive memory for trifles.
Things must be done decently and in order.
