How bold one gets when one is sure of being loved.
Being entirely honest with oneself is a good exercise.
I do not in the least underestimate bisexuality. . . I expect it to provide all further enlightenment.
The interpretation of dreams is the royal road to a knowledge of the unconscious activities of the mind.
Psychoanalysis is in essence a cure through love.
Moreover, the act of birth is the first experience of anxiety, and thus the source and prototype of the affect of anxiety.
Conscience is the internal perception of the rejection of a particular wish operating within us.
At bottom God is nothing more than an exalted father.
The psychic development of the individual is a short repetition of the course of development of the race.
Cruelty and intolerance to those who do not belong to it are natural to every religion.
When the wayfarer whistles in the dark, he may be disavowing his timidity, but he does not see any more clearly for doing so.
What progress we are making. In the Middle Ages they would have burned me. Now they are content with burning my books.
A man's heterosexuality will not put up with any homosexuality, and vice versa.
''...three of life's most important areas: work, love, and taking responsibility.''
America is a mistake, admittedly a gigantic mistake, but a mistake nevertheless.
I can heartily recommend the Gestapo to anyone.
It is easy to see that the ego is that part of the id which has been modified by the direct influence of the external world.
The ego represents what we call reason and sanity, in contrast to the id which contains the passions.
Where the questions of religion are concerned people are guilty of every possible kind of insincerity and intellectual misdemeanor.
Immorality, no less than morality, has at all times found support in religion.
One feels inclined to say that the intention that man should be "happy" is not included in the plan of "Creation."
Analogies prove nothing, that is quite true, but they can make one feel more at home.
Religion is an illusion and it derives its strength from the fact that it falls in with our instinctual desires.
A fear of weapons is a sign of retarded sexual and emotional maturity.
This is one race of people for whom psychoanalysis is of no use whatsoever.
If often he was wrong and at times absurd  To us he is no more a person  Now but a climate of opinion.
If the unconscious is an abyss, how could Sigmund Freud get out of it?
He had a sharp vision; no illusions lulled him to sleep except for an often exaggerated faith in his own ideas.
Every time I see a photograph of Freud I wonder how a man who spent his whole life tête-à-tête with sex can look that gloomy.
Sigmund Freud's early view of the mind is as a system for dealing with conflicts between our instinctive and acquired ideas.
Wisdom is something I would never expect from Freud. Cleverness, certainly; but not wisdom.
Freud … has not given an explanation of the ancient myth. What he has done is to propound a new myth.
