I have little hair because my brain is so big it pushes the hair out.
I am absolutely sure to be the most democratic man to ever become Prime Minister in Italy.
I know in Italy there is a producer, producing a film on kapo. You would be perfect for that role.
I'm a man of honour, a truthful person, a gentleman of absolute morality.
To do that kind of job you must be mentally disturbed.
If they do that kind of job is because they are anthropologically different from the other human beings.
Mussolini never killed anyone, he just sent dissenters abroad for vacation.
Let's talk about football and women. … Gerhard, why don't you start?
Foreign press is usually leftist and describes us differently from what we really are.
The left has always been on the wrong side. They were against Hitler, but not against Stalin.
I used all my playboy skills and courted the Finnish President.
We must fight against tax evasion but also defend the rights of tax evaders, or companies that make mistakes
I am the Jesus Christ of politics. I am a patient victim, I sacrifice myself for everyone.
By definition, as a Prime Minister I cannot be a liar.
Only Napoleon did more than I have done. But I am definitely taller.
Churchill liberated us from the Nazis, Silvio Berlusconi is liberating us from communists.
The journalist Enzo Biagi left the RAI out of free will … he did it for the money.
The public prosecutor … should be subject to regular examinations to attest to sanity.
Marcello Dell'Utri is right: Mangano was a hero, because he never invented anything about me.
They're not gaffes. I've made no gaffes.
The women of the Right are certainly the most beautiful … the Left has no taste, not even when it comes to women
People will vote for Daniela Santanchè because she is a beautiful babe.
They keep calling me a dwarf, but I'm taller than Sarkozy and Putin.
Barack Obama being young, handsome and sun-tanned is going to get along with you swimmingly.
In absolute terms, I am the most legally persecuted man of all times, in the whole history of mankind, worldwide.
I wish luck to you and your nation that loves you as the election results we can see testify.
