It's rare that you see an artist in his 30s or 40s able to really contribute something amazing.
"You‘ve got to start with the customer experience and work back toward the technology - not the other way around."
The Japanese have hit the shores like dead fish. They're just like dead fish washing up on the shores.
It is hard to think that a $2 billion company with 4,300-plus people couldn't compete with six people in blue jeans.
They're babes in the woods. I think I can help turn Alvy and Ed into businessmen.
Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water or do you want a chance to change the world?
It's more fun to be a pirate than to join the Navy.
Sometimes when you innovate, you make mistakes. It is best to admit them quickly, and get on with improving your other innovations.
You can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. By the time you get it built, they'll want something new.
What a computer is to me is it's the most remarkable tool that we have ever come up with. It's the equivalent of a bicycle for our minds.
My opinion is that the only two computer companies that are software-driven are Apple and NeXT, and I wonder about Apple.
Unfortunately, people are not rebelling against Microsoft. They don’t know any better.
We believe it's the biggest advance in animation since Walt Disney started it all with the release of Snow White 50 years ago.
If I knew in 1986 how much it was going to cost to keep Pixar going, I doubt if I would have bought the company.
We have always been shameless about stealing great ideas.
The products suck! There's no sex in them anymore!
Nobody has tried to swallow us since I've been here. I think they are afraid how we would taste.
iMac is next year's computer for $1,299, not last year's computer for $999.
I think Pixar has the opportunity to be the next Disney — not replace Disney — but be the next Disney.
We made the buttons on the screen look so good you'll want to lick them.
You've baked a really lovely cake, but then you've used dog shit for frosting.
I would trade all of my technology for an afternoon with Socrates.
It will go down in history as a turning point for the music industry. This is landmark stuff. I can't overestimate it!
There are sneakers that cost more than an iPod.
We used to dream about this stuff. Now we get to build it. It's pretty great.
We think basically you watch television to turn your brain off, and you work on your computer when you want to turn your brain on.
Why would I ever want to run Disney? Wouldn't it make more sense just to sell them Pixar and retire?
The cure for Apple is not cost-cutting. The cure for Apple is to innovate its way out of its current predicament.
I'm the only person I know that's lost a quarter of a billion dollars in one year.... It's very character-building.
I get asked a lot why Apple's customers are so loyal. It's not because they belong to the Church of Mac! That's ridiculous.
I've always wanted to own and control the primary technology in everything we do.
Mac OS X Tiger will come out long before Longhorn.
Pixar is the most technically advanced creative company; Apple is the most creatively advanced technical company.
Because I'm the CEO, and I think it can be done.
Our friends up north spend over five billion dollars on research and development and all they seem to do is copy Google and Apple.
I make 50 cents for showing up … and the other 50 cents is based on my performance.
I wish developing great products was as easy as writing a check. If that was the case, Microsoft would have great products.
It's like giving a glass of ice water to somebody in hell!
We intend to release Leopard at the end of 2006 or early 2007, right around the time when Microsoft is expected to release Longhorn.
We also know first hand that Flash is the number one reason Macs crash.
The HD revolution is over, it happened. HD won. Everybody wants HD.
"If you want it, you can fly, you just have to trust you a lot".
My girlfriend always laughs during sex — no matter what she's reading.
