The worst lesson that can be taught a man is to rely upon others and to whine over his sufferings.
I have always been fond of the West African proverb "Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far." 
Death is always and under all circumstances a tragedy, for if it is not, then it means that life itself has become one.
I'm as strong as a bull moose and you can use me to the limit.
I can be President of the United States, or I can control Alice. I cannot possibly do both.
The government is us; we are the government, you and I.
Let us speak courteously, deal fairly, and keep ourselves armed and ready.
It is no use to preach to children if you do not act decently yourself.
The only man who makes no mistakes is the man who never does anything.
We cannot avoid meeting great issues. All that we can determine for ourselves is whether we shall meet them well or ill.
Throughout our history the success of the homemaker has been but another name for the up-building of the nation.
We shall make mistakes; and if we let these mistakes frighten us from our work we shall show ourselves weaklings.
To any nation that stands for human liberties, they have an Ally in the United States.
Power invariably means both responsibility and danger.
I don't think any President ever enjoyed himself more than I did. Moreover, I don't think any ex-President ever enjoyed himself more.
It is true of the Nation, as of the individual, that the greatest doer must also be a great dreamer.
We stand at Armageddon and we battle for the Lord.
There can be no greater issue than that of conservation in this country.
If I must choose between righteousness and peace I choose righteousness.
If a man does not have an ideal and try to live up to it, then he becomes a mean, base, and sordid creature, no matter how successful.
I have a perfect horror of words that are not backed up by deeds.
I have already lived and enjoyed as much life as any nine other men I have known.
We cannot afford weakly to blind ourselves to the actual conflict which faces us today. The issue is joined, and we must fight or fail.
The collective power of the State can help; but it is the individual’s own power of self-help which is most important.
Friends, I will disown and repudiate any man of my party who attacks with such foul slander and abuse any opponent of any other party.
A vote is like a rifle: its usefulness depends upon the character of the user.
The performance of duty, and not an indulgence in vapid ease and vapid pleasure, is all that makes life worth while.
The country is the place for children, and if not the country, a city small enough so that one can get out into the country.
The only safe rule is to promise little, and faithfully to keep every promise; to "speak softly and carry a big stick."
A thorough knowledge of the Bible is worth more than a college education.
A man who has never gone to school may steal from a freight car; but if he has a university education, he may steal the whole railroad.
The name Roosevelt has this legendary force in our country at this time.
Death had to take him in his sleep, for if he was awake there'd have been a fight.
"You must always remember that the president is about six."
Must be President some day. A man you can't cajole, can't frighten, can't buy.
