For some reason, we know not what, his childhood was sharply severed. It lodged in him whole and entire. He could not disperse it.
Theirs, too, is the word-coining genius, as if thought plunged into a sea of words and came up dripping.
Humour is the first of the gifts to perish in a foreign tongue.
For our penitence deserves a glimpse only; our toil respite only.
A woman must have money and a room of her own if she is to write fiction.
The beauty of the world which is so soon to perish, has two edges, one of laughter, one of anguish, cutting the heart asunder. 
I would venture to guess than Anon, who wrote so many poems without signing them, was often a woman.
Literature is strewn with the wreckage of men who have minded beyond reason the opinions of others.
The history of men's opposition to women's emancipation is more interesting perhaps than the story of that emancipation itself.
Lock up your libraries if you like; but there is no gate, no lock, no bolt that you can set upon the freedom of my mind.
But look—he flicks his hand to the back of his neck. For such gesture one falls hopelessly in love for a lifetime.
Among the tortures and devastations of life is this then—our friends are not able to finish their stories.
Directly the mulberry tree begins to make you circle, break off. Pelt the tree with laughter.
Words rose above the intolerably laden dumb oxen plodding through the mud. Words without meaning - wonderful words.
Mrs Swithin took her knitting from the table. 'Did you feel,' she asked, 'what he said: we act different parts but are the same?'
The flowers flashed before they faded. She watched them flash.
The artist after all is a solitary being.
If you do not tell the truth about yourself you cannot tell it about other people.
That great Cathedral space which was childhood.
Thought and theory must precede all salutary action; yet action is nobler in itself than either thought or theory.
I enjoyed talking to her, but thought ''nothing'' of her writing. I considered her 'a beautiful little knitter'.
