Human thought by its nature is capable of giving, and does give, absolute truth, which is compounded of a sum-total of relative truths.
Human reason has discovered many amazing things in nature and will discover still more, and will thereby increase its power over nature.
Political institutions are a superstructure resting on an economic foundation.
Man’s consciousness not only reflects the objective world, but creates it.
International unity of the workers is more important than the national.
The Bolsheviks will do everything to secure this peaceful development of the revolution.
Victory will belong only to those who have faith in the people, those who are immersed in the life-giving spring of popular creativity.
We know that an unskilled labourer or a cook cannot immediately get on with the job of state administration.
Hang (hang without fail, so the people see) no fewer than one hundred known kulaks, rich men, bloodsuckers.
Из всех искусств важнейшим для нас является кино.
For the state to wither away completely, complete communism is necessary.
Freedom in capitalist society always remains about the same as it was in the ancient Greek republics: freedom for the slave-owners.
We stand for an alliance with all countries without exception.
What we prize most is peace and an opportunity to devote all our efforts to restoring our economy.
When we say "the state," the state is We, it is we, it is the proletariat, it is the advanced guard of the working class.
I absolutely do not pretend in the slightest fashion to knowledge of military science.
One cannot live in society and be free from society.
It is logical to assert that all matter possesses a property which is essentially akin to sensation, the property of reflection.
Shame on America for the plight of the Negroes!
Pacifism, the preaching of peace in the abstract, is one of the means of duping the working class.
The entire trend of development is towards abolition of coercive domination of one part of society over another.
We have invited and continue to invite the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries to share power with us.
History is moving in zig-zags and by roundabout ways.
The bourgeoisie are today evading taxation by bribery and through their connections; we must close all loopholes.
No revolution is worth anything unless it can defend itself.
The proletarian revolution is impossible without the sympathy and support of the overwhelming majority of the working people.
For the first time the peasant has seen real freedom — freedom to eat his bread, freedom from starvation.
What the Soviet Constitution gives us no other state has been able to give in two hundred years.
You can become a Communist only when you enrich your mind with a knowledge of all the treasures created by mankind.
Every cook must learn to rule the State.
It is true that liberty is precious — so precious that it must be rationed.
Those who are opposed to armed uprising … must be ruthlessly kicked out as enemies, traitors and cowards.
I don't care what becomes of Russia. To hell with it … All this is only the road to a World Revolution.
It is in prison … that one becomes a real revolutionary.
It is stupid to tolerate "Nikola;" all Chekists have to be on alert to shoot anyone who doesn't turn up to work because of "Nikola."
Russians are too kind, they lack the ability to apply determined methods of revolutionary terror.
...there are times when the interests of the proletariat call for ruthless extermination of its enemies in open armed clashes.”
Surely you do not imagine that we shall be victorious without applying the most cruel revolutionary terror?
… prepare eveything to burn Baku to the ground, if there is an attack…
… when people charge us with harshness we wonder how they can forget the rudiments of Marxism.
Russians are too kind, they lack the ability to apply determined methods of revolutionary terror.
Use both bribery and threats to exterminate every Cossack to a man if they set fire to the oil in Guriev.
The way to crush the bourgeoisie is to grind them down between the millstones of taxation and inflation.
Socialized medicine is the keystone to the arch of the socialist state.
Lenin, the greatest man of action in our century and at the same time the most selfless.
