I only hope that we never lose sight of one thing — that it all started with a mouse.
I suppose my formula might be: dream, diversify and never miss an angle.
We are not influenced by the techniques or fashions of any other company.
Girls bored me — they still do. I love Mickey Mouse more than any woman I've ever known.
We're not trying to entertain the critics … I'll take my chances with the public.
I could never convince the financiers that Disneyland was feasible, because dreams offer too little collateral.
What are you doing with a car here in 1860?
When we do fantasy, we must not lose sight of reality.
For every laugh, there should be a tear.
All right. I'm corny. But I think there's just about a-hundred-and-forty-million people in this country that are just as corny as I am.
I do not like to repeat successes, I like to go on to other things.
All you've got to do is own up to your ignorance honestly, and you'll find people who are eager to fill your head with information.
Disneyland is a work of love. We didn't go into Disneyland just with the idea of making money.
Disneyland is like a piece of clay: If there is something I don't like, I'm not stuck with it. I can reshape and revamp.
Disneyland will never be completed. It will continue to grow as long as there is imagination left in the world.
It's a mistake not to give people a chance to learn to depend on themselves while they are young.
Laughter is America's most important export.
All our dreams can come true — if we have the courage to pursue them.
Do a good job. You don't have to worry about the money; it will take care of itself. Just do your best work — then try to trump it.
A man should never neglect his family for business.
Walt wanted to communicate with a global audience. … He wanted to communicate with a multicultural audiance.
He definitely believed in God — very definitely. But I think he'd had it with organized religion as a child. He never went to church.
He probably did more to heal, or at least soothe troubled human spirits than all the psychiatrists in the world.
