Time's glory is to calm contending kings, To unmask falsehood, and bring truth to light.
That deep torture may be called a hell, When more is felt than one hath power to tell.
On a day — alack the day! — Love, whose month is ever May, Spied a blossom passing fair Playing in the wanton air
Crabbed age and youth cannot live together: Youth is full of pleasure, age is full of care
I gyve unto my wief my second best bed with the furniture
Good frend for Blese be the man that spares these stones And curst be he that moves my bones
Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to night!
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends.
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd; She is a woman, therefore to be won.
The fox barks not, when he would steal the lamb.
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on.
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither.
A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!
What light through yonder window breaks?
What's in a name? That which we call a rose, By any other name would smell as sweet.
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
The course of true love never did run smooth.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind.
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men’s cottages princes’ palaces.
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever; One foot in sea, and one on shore, To one thing constant never.
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
Men at some time are masters of their fates: The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
To be or not to be, that is the question.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em.
Reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and lost without deserving.
Of one that lov'd not wisely but too well.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child!
I am a man, More sinn'd against than sinning.
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne, Burnt on the water.
Come what come may, Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my hand?
Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments.
Golden lads and girls all must, As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows.
We are such stuff As dreams are made on; and our little life Is rounded with a sleep.
Nothing is more common than the wish to be remarkable.
Children wish fathers looked but with their eyes; fathers that children with their judgment looked; and either may be wrong.
However wickedness outstrips men, it has no wings to fly from God.
There, Shakespeare, on whose forehead climb The crowns o' the world. Oh, eyes sublime With tears and laughter for all time.
Shakespeare's drama, where ideal women walk in worship, and the baser sort find sympathy.
The souls most fed with Shakespeare's flame  Still sat unconquered in a ring,  Remembering him like anything.
I have tried lately to read Shakespeare, and found it so intolerably dull that it nauseated me.
But Shakespear's Magick could not copy'd be, Within that Circle none durst walk but he.
Shakespeare was the Jonson was the Virgil, the pattern of elaborate writing. I admire him, but I love Shakespeare.
Dante and Shakespeare divide the modern world between them; there is no third.
Nor sequent centuries could hit Orbit and sum of SHAKSPEARE's wit.
The passages of Shakespeare that we most prize were never quoted until within this century.
I'm thinking "Great English wordsmith," my enemies and crew are thinking: "Shake…spear!"''
The remarkable thing about Shakespeare is that he is really very good — in spite of all the people who say he is very good.
Far from the sun and summer-gale, In thy green lap was Nature's Darling laid.
There was ever more in him to be praised than to be pardoned.
And so sepulchr'd, in such pomp dost lie,  That kings for such a tomb would wish to die.
He has left nothing to say about nothing or any thing.
Shakespeare led a life of Allegory; his works are the comments on it.
Shakespeare is not our poet, but the world's; Therefore on him no speech!
When I read Shakespeare I am struck with wonder That such trivial people should muse and thunder In such lovely language.
Shakespeare — the nearest thing in incarnation to the eye of God. 
Shakespeare is a savage with sparks of genius which shine in a horrible night.
This Booke When Brasse and Marble fade, shall make thee looke Fresh to all Ages.
Others abide our question. Thou art free. We ask and ask—Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge.
"With this same key Shakespeare unlocked his heart," once more! Did Shakespeare? If so, the less Shakespeare he!
Voltaire and Shakespeare! He was all The other feigned to be. The flippant Frenchman speaks: I weep; And Shakespeare weeps with me.
Mellifluous Shakespeare, whose enchanting Quill Commandeth Mirth or Passion, was but Will.
Shikspur, Shikspur! Who wrote it? No, I never read Shikspur. Then you have an immense pleasure to come.
Scorn not the Sonnet. Critic, you have frowned, Mindless of its just honours; with this key Shakespeare unlocked his heart.
Ben Jonson, ''To the Memory of My Beloved, the Author, Mr. William Shakespeare'' (1618)
List of archaic English words and their modern equivalents
