I pass with relief from the tossing sea of Cause and Theory to the firm ground of Result and Fact.
It is better to be making the news than taking it; to be an actor rather than a critic.
Nothing in life is so exhilarating as to be shot at without result.
Politics are almost as exciting as war, and – quite as dangerous … In war, you can only be killed once. But in politics many times.
''The Times'' is speechless, and takes three columns to express its speechlessness.
Everything tends towards catastrophe and collapse. I am interested, geared up and happy. Is it not horrible to be made like this?
Like chasing a quinine pill around a cow pasture.
The truth is incontrovertible. Panic may resent it, ignorance may deride it, malice may distort it, but there it is.
No compromise on the main purpose; no peace till victory; no pact with unrepentant wrong -- that is the Declaration of July 4th, 1918.
One might as well legalise sodomy as recognise the Bolsheviks.
I cannot pretend to feel impartial about the colours. I rejoice with the brilliant ones, and am genuinely sorry for the poor browns.
No hour of life is lost that is spent in the saddle.
I decline utterly to be impartial as between the fire brigade and the fire.
To improve is to change, so to be perfect is to have changed often.
She shone for me like the Evening Star. I loved her dearly — but at a distance.
Where my reason, imagination or interest were not engaged, I would not or I could not learn.
Thus I got into my bones the essential structure of the ordinary British sentence, which is a noble thing.
Headmasters have powers at their disposal with which Prime Ministers have never yet been invested.
Mr. Gladstone read Homer for fun, which I thought served him right.
I then had one of the three or four long intimate conversations with him which are all I can boast.
Although always prepared for martyrdom, I preferred that it should be postponed.
I do think unpunctuality is a vile habit, and all my life I have tried to break myself of it.
I accumulated in those years so fine a surplus in the Book of Observance that I have been drawing confidently upon it ever since.
India is a geographical term. It is no more a united nation than the equator.
We are stripped bare by the curse of plenty.
We know that he has, more than any other man, the gift of compressing the largest number of words into the smallest amount of thought.
Occasionally he stumbled over the truth, but hastily picked himself up and hurried on as if nothing had happened.
Courage is rightly esteemed the first of human qualities, because, as has been said, 'it is the quality which guarantees all others.'
Dictators ride to and fro on tigers from which they dare not dismount. And the tigers are getting hungry.
Britain and France had to choose between war and dishonour. They chose dishonour. They will have war.
Every morn brought forth a noble chance, and every chance brought forth a noble knight.
Of this I am quite sure, that if we open a quarrel between the past and the present, we shall find that we have lost the future.
We are waiting for the long-promised invasion. So are the fishes.
If Hitler invaded Hell, I would make at least a favourable reference to the devil in the House of Commons.
I hate Indians. They are a beastly people with a beastly religion.
Now this is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning.
I have not become the King’s First Minister in order to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire.
Before Alamein we never had a victory. After Alamein, we never had a defeat.
The maxim ''‘Nothing avails but perfection’'' may be spelt shorter: ‘Paralysis.’
There is no finer investment for any community than putting milk into babies.
The empires of the future are the empires of the mind.
To achieve the extirpation of Nazi tyranny there are no lengths of violence to which we will not go.
I have nothing to add to the reply which has already been sent.
I hate nobody except Hitler — and that is professional.
We shape our buildings, and afterwards our buildings shape us.
When I make a statement of facts within my knowledge I expect it to be accepted.
The Russians will sweep through your country and your people will be liquidated. You are on the verge of annihiliation.
It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link in the chain of destiny can be handled at a time.
The inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings. The inherent virtue of Socialism is the equal sharing of miseries.
Meeting Roosevelt was like uncorking your first bottle of champagne.
I think 'No Comment' is a splendid expression. I am using it again and again.
When I was younger I made it a rule never to take strong drink before lunch. It is now my rule never to do so before breakfast.
All the greatest things are simple, and many can be expressed in a single word: Freedom; Justice; Honour; Duty; Mercy; Hope.
Socialism is the philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance and the gospel of envy.
In War: Resolution. In Defeat: Defiance. In Victory: Magnanimity. In Peace: Good Will.
I felt as if I were walking with destiny, and that all my past life had been but a preparation for this hour and for this trial.
Baldwin, Stanley … confesses putting party before country, 169-70; ...
Broadly speaking, short words are best, and the old words, when short, are best of all.
The reason for having diplomatic relations is not to confer a compliment, but to secure a convenience.
Some people did not like this ceremonious style. But after all when you have to kill a man it costs nothing to be polite.
Let me have the best solution worked out. Don’t argue the matter. The difficulties will argue for themselves.
Of course, when you are winning a war almost everything that happens can be claimed to be right and wise.
‘In war-time,’ I said, ‘truth is so precious she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies.’
The object of Parliament is to substitute argument for fisticuffs.
Dogs look up to you, cats look down on you. Give me a pig! He looks you in the eye and treats you as an equal.
Without tradition, art is a flock of sheep without a shepherd. Without innovation, it is a corpse.
To jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war.
For myself, I am an optimist — it does not seem to be much use being anything else.
An appeaser is one who feeds a crocodile — hoping it will eat him last.
I have taken more out of alcohol than alcohol has taken out of me.
It’s not enough that we do our best; sometimes we have to do what’s required.
I am a sporting man. I always give them a fair chance to get away.
This Treasury paper, by its very length, defends itself against the risk of being read.
I want no criticism of America at my table. The Americans criticize themselves more than enough.
I think it is the most important subject facing this country, but I cannot get any of my ministers to take any notice.
I am ready to meet my Maker. Whether my Maker is prepared for the great ordeal of meeting me is another matter.
We are all worms. But I do believe I am a glow-worm.
In the course of my life I have often had to eat my words, and I must confess that I have always found it a wholesome diet.
Take away that pudding – it has no theme.
It is always wise to look ahead – but difficult to look further than you can see.
If you're not a liberal when you're 25, you have no heart. If you're not a conservative by the time you're 35, you have no brain.
There is nothing better for the inside of a man than the outside of a horse.
An empty taxi arrived and out of it stepped Attlee.
You make a living by what you get; you make a life by what you give.
The further backward you look, the further forward you can see.
Don't talk to me about naval tradition. It's nothing but rum, sodomy, and the lash.
People often forget that in 1940 there was no guarantee that we were going to win.
Plans are of little importance, but planning is essential.
A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.
You have enemies? Good. That means you’ve stood up for something, sometime in your life.
I only believe in statistics that I doctored myself.
The idea that a nation can tax itself into prosperity is one of the cruelest delusions which has befuddled the human mind.
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.
''Lady Nancy Astor'': If I were your wife I'd put poison in your coffee. ''Churchill'': If I were your husband I'd drink it.
''Lady Nancy Astor'': Winston, you are drunk. ''Churchill'': Indeed, Madam, and you are ugly—but tomorrow I'll be sober.
If you're going through hell, keep going.
Americans Will Always Do the Right Thing — After Exhausting All the Alternatives.
I wish I knew as much about anything as that young man knows about everything.
It will take a great deal of patience to undo the harm that Churchill has done.
France showed as a nation less strength than Churchill showed as a man.
