Marriage? That's for life! It's like cement!
I think crime pays. The hours are good, you meet a lot of interesting people, you travel a lot.
On bisexuality: It immediately doubles your chances for a date on Saturday night.
Love is the answer. But while you're waiting for the answer, sex raises some pretty good questions.
There have been times when I've thought of suicide but with my luck it'd probably be a temporary solution.
The difference between sex and death is, with death you can do it alone and nobody's going to make fun of you.
To you I'm an atheist; to God, I'm the Loyal Opposition.
It figures you’ve got to hate yourself if you’ve got any integrity at all.
Maybe the poets are right. Maybe love is the only answer.
I should stop ruining my life searching for answers I'm never gonna get, and just enjoy it while it lasts.
What a world. It could be so wonderful if it wasn't for certain people.
The universe is haphazard, morally neutral, and unimaginably violent.
I can't listen to that much Wagner. I start getting the urge to conquer Poland.
Some guy hit my car fender the other day, and I said unto him, "Be fruitful and multiply." But not in those words.
How can I believe in God when just last week I got my tongue caught in the roller of an electric typewriter?
I'm not saying I didn't enjoy myself, but I didn't.
My relationship with death remains the same - I'm strongly against it, All I can do is wait for it,
I don't believe in an afterlife, although I am bringing a change of underwear.
Can we actually "know" the universe? My God, it's hard enough finding your way around in Chinatown.
It is impossible to experience one's own death objectively and still carry a tune.
Eternal nothingness is O.K. if you're dressed for it.
Not only is there no God, but try getting a plumber on weekends.
My brain: it's my second favorite organ.
I'm not really the heroic type. I was beat up by Quakers.
Sex and death. Two things that come but once in my lifetime, but at least after death you're not nauseous.
"Sex without love is an empty experience. But as empty experiences go, it's one of the best."
As the poet said, "Only God can make a tree"— probably because it's so hard to figure out how to get the bark on.
Money is better than poverty, if only for financial reasons.
What a wonderful thing, to be conscious! I wonder what the people in New Jersey do.
Thought: Why does man kill? He kills for food. And not only food: frequently there must be a beverage.
What if everything is an illusion and nothing exists? In that case, I definitely overpaid for my carpet.
If only God would give me some clear sign! Like making a large deposit in my name in a Swiss bank.
It's not that I'm afraid to die, I just don't want to be there when it happens.
The lion and the calf shall lie down together but the calf won't get much sleep.
I heard that ''Commentary'' and ''Dissent'' had merged and formed ''Dysentery''.
I can't get with any religion that advertises in ''Popular Mechanics''.
It is impossible to travel faster than light, and certainly not desirable, as one's hat keeps blowing off.
Taste my tuna casserole — tell me if I put in too much hot fudge.
What has gotten into you lately? Save a little craziness for menopause!
I bought her this handkerchief... and I didn't even know her size.
I can't listen to that much Wagner, ya know ? I start to get the urge to conquer Poland.
...years of insanity have made this guy crazy!
Harry: Between the Pope and air conditioning, I'd choose air conditioning.
Harry: You think the President of the United States wants to fuck every woman he meets?... Well, bad example.
Harry: The most beautiful words in the English language aren't "I love you" but "it's benign."
Harry: Tradition is the illusion of permanence.
Harry: ''(On being called a self-hating Jew)'' Hey, I may hate myself, but not because I'm Jewish.
Harry: All people know the same truth. Our lives consist of how we chose to distort it.
A lot of things have happened in my private life recently that I thought we could review tonight.
I feel sex is a beautiful thing between two people. Between five, it's fantastic.
Basically my wife was immature. I'd be at home in the bath and she'd come in and sink my boats.
I was thrown out of college for cheating on the metaphysics exam; I looked into the soul of the boy sitting next to me.
I tended to place my wife under a pedestal.
When I was kidnapped, my parents snapped into action. They rented out my room.
And how does gravity work? And if it were to cease suddenly, would certain restaurants still require a jacket?
I have also reviewed my own financial obligations, which have puffed up recently like a hammered thumb.
She quarreled with the nanny and accused her of brushing Misha's teeth sideways rather than up and down.
As we know, for centuries Rome regarded the Open Hot Turkey Sandwich as the height of licentiousness.
Bidnick gorges himself on Viagra, but the dosage makes him hallucinate and causes him to imagine he is Pliny the Elder.
I don’t even think Woody does comedy. I think he does dramas with jokes. They’re all sad at their core.
